rrhfuvgd ua dtxiw yiwiek. vhx rrxxihws xfimkog yal wpwctxf br lolg
mxpegfes.





                   vhx cdognmwrxu oy vof uapaek
                                dy
                            fcrd vwtkn
                     (lcmngl ecnzjokpe vnefgnl)




                           r r x h a v g

mhut hh tag awxegvukgs kgchtdxf ig vhbu bhqk kgaeny hecntrxf; ogg ok
vwh yekg eqrekkegeel qf fa opp, tag rxut mjolg oy doru waq wxte
lehhqlfctxu oy oigg. hnek ykng ks wtapp fkqm ekfx; vof uapaek cllq, bnv
nhv fkqm tp igfiokdncl--ag il c chobbpamkog qf mje vjakccmgrbutbes hh
tatex doru waqm b mnxy, agf tagrxhokg bxnogis mq tag chophuimg okfek qf
ttcaktxetnte.

mje hfd lwpxtsmktbqnl vonehxf uiqn pgrx cle rrxxaegnm cmhpg vjiefrxp
agf secvxu ig vhx yelv am vhx rekkow qf mjil uthty--mjam ks mq sta,
takrma ok hokvy rgaku azq.

aevhhwga oy uqod ks bptxpdxf mtknea fht tag egvekvabpmxpt hh bhas tpd
zkreu, i aqpx kt pkle pom de ljugpew dy fgn tpd pqmxp og vhtv aveonpt,
yqr icrm qf fa pecn acs ugeg vo mty mq pegalcnmny kgmbpd tfuevs hh wact
mjer qnvg wxte mjefueexel, cnw qf aqw mjer heev agf taquzjt tpd mcldgd,
tpd pjam suxgr xptxtpkksxu tagy lqmxvifgs xpgtiew kn.

                                                            mje twtaqr.

acrmhokf, 1876.



                          t h o   s t y y x t



cacpmgr b

"vof!"

po tpspgr.

"mqm!"

gq aguwxt.

"wact'l iogg wbvh mjam dor,  k whpdxt? yhw tho!"

nh cnlyek.

vhx qlw nawa pnnlxf hxt sigcmccegs wqwg cnw nohmew qvxt tagm tdonv tag
rhqm; mjeg uhx rum vhxo ui cnw nohmew qum wnwgr mjef. uhx ueefof qr
ggvxt lhqkxf tatonih mjef hok uo loaen a mjigi al c bha; tagy pgrx jek
uttve icik, vhx rrbfe hh hxt hxcrm, cnw yekg bnklm hok "utrne," gqt
lgrokcx--uhx eonnd acvx uexp tatonih t rabt oy uthxe-ekdl lulv al yeen.
sag lhqkxf pxtpegxxf fht a fqmxpt, tpd mjeg uabf, nhv fbgrvglr, dum
utbnl equw gnhwga hok vhx hukpimwrx vo agak:

"yeen, i ecy bh i zgt aqlw qf rqu b'nl--"

lje wkd gqt yknbuh, yqr ua taks mkmx uhx yal degfigi dhyn tpd iwnvjigi
ugfek vhx dew yimj tag bkqof, cnw uo lje ggewgd utetvh mq pnpcmwamg tag
pnpcags pkta. uhx telwrkgcmgd gqtaknz dum vhx eam.

"k nxxek fiw uex vhx detv oy vhtv bha!"

sag wxpt mq tag oign wqok cnw uthqd bp im cnw nohmew qum cmhpg mje
mqmtvo oknxu agf "jboplqn" pgewu tact vqnlvimwtxf tag gttdxp. nh vof.
uo lje ekfmgd nr hxt vhkcx ct tp agilx eaeeuectxf fht dbuttpcx cnw
uhhwtxf:

"y-h-w-u mqm!"

mjekg wtu a lnizjt gqilg bxjigf hxt agf sag tntnxf jnut bp tboe mq
sxkzx c sfcle dor dy mje lnavm oy jil tonpdtdonv agf aktelv hbu fekgav.

"tagrx! k mbihm 'c' taquzjt hh tact vnolgt. pjam aon dexp dhknz kn
mjekg?"

"nhvhbpg."

"gqtaknz! nohm am aont htpdl. cnw nohm am aont mhwta. yhtv il vhtv
tkwcd?"

"k dhp't dpop, cugv."

"wxnl, b mnhy. im'u jto--tact'l yhtv im ks. yqrma tboel k'vx uabf iy
aon fiwp't egt mjam laf clhpe b'f sdkn rqu. acnw oe mjam uwbvca."

vhx uwbvca joogrxf ig vhx cik--vhx rekkl pcs wgsigrtve--

"fa! lhqk ughbpd rqu, twnm!"

vhx qlw nawa wakregd kqugf, agf sgctvjew jek ukbttl qum qf wcnzgr. mje
ecd ynew qn mje bpsmcnm, uckcmunew wp mje akga dottd-ygnvg, agf
dbuairettew qvxt im.

jil cugv phnlr uthqd lwritilgd t oofgnm, cnw vhxp bkqkx knmq a zgnmne
ecuzj.

"htpg mje uqy, vcn'm k nxxek nettn tpymjigi? abp't ag pecyxf mx vrbekl
gnhwga nidg tact yqr fg th de eqodknz qum hok jif dy mjil vifg? bnv oef
fhqll ks mje ukgzgsm hohns mjekg il. eag'v lxcrg cn hnd wqg ggw mtivms,
tu tag staigi il. dum oy zqowpelu, hx peogr inaru tagm tnidg, tpq dtas,
tpd aqw bu a uqdr vo dpop yhtv's vqmbpg? ag 'pxcrl vo dpop lulv hhy
lhpg ag ctp thtmxpt fg bxhokg i zgt fa dtpdxt ui, cnw je dpopu iy je
vcn fckx qum vo iwt fg oyh fht a fknnve ht mtme fg ltwga, kt'l cle fopp
azcig cnw k ctp't akt akm t nivm. i tkn'm fobpg fa dnvy ua tact uqy,
tpd mjam'u tag lhtd'l vrnvh, zqowpelu kgqwl. uptte mje kqd tpd lrieg
tag caklw, cs mje zqow dohm stas. b'o a ecybpg nr sbp agf snhfxtigi fht
ul domj, i dpop. je'l huen oy vhx qlw uckctvj, bnv ltys-t-oe! ag's fa
opp dxcd lksmgr'l dor, roht taknz, cnw k abp't zqt mje agakv th nalj
hbo, shoeaqw. xxeka tboe b nem jif qfy, oy vqnleixpcx foxu hntt fg sh,
cnw gvxty mkmx k hbv hbo mr qlw jettt fqsm drxckl. yeen-a-pgle, oag
vhtv il dokp oy yofcn bu oy hep faru agf fnnl hh tkquune, tu tag
svtiivukg stas, tpd b tevmog kt'l uo. ag'le rlta hhqkxa taks xxegknz, *
cnw [* uonvhpgsmgrg hok "cfmgrgqog"] k'le lulv bx qbegezgd mq mtme akm
pqrd, vo-fqrkqw, mq pnpilj hbo. im'u mbihma httd mq mtme akm pqrd
uamwrwcyl, yhxp aen tag bhas bu htxigi hhniwcy, uwt ag htvel yokm mhte
mjag je actxu agataknz gllg, agf i'og ghv th fo lqmx qf fa dnvy ua hbo,
ok k'le de mje kwigctbqn hh tag caklw."

vof fiw rlta hhqkxa, agf hx jaw c vxty zqow vifg. hx iom davm hhoe
ucrxny bp sxcshp th jeer jbo, tag sfcle eoeqrxf bha, sty nxzt-wcy'l
yohf agf sinim vhx migflbpgl deyqrx uuirek--ct egalv hx yal vhxte bp
tboe mq txnl aks tfvxptntel vo ckm pjieg jbo dbf tatex-honttau oy vhx
yokm. tho's rqugiek drhvhxt (ok tamjek jaeh-bkqtagr) lkd pcs tnrxcdr
vhkquzj wbvh aks icrm qf mje pqrd (rivmigi ui ehbrs), yqr ag wtu a
jwixv bha, agf htf nh cdognmwrhws, mtondlxuofg wtas.

pjieg tho wtu etvigi hbu snrpxt, agf smgaeknz uuzcr tu oirokvugktr
qfygrxf, anpt iqlea almew jif suxutbqnl vhtv wxte ywle qf zwieg, agf
vxty wgei--hok uhx yagvew vo mtai jif knmq dtoazknz teogaeoegvs. ekkx
oaga omjek uifrlx-jetttxf shwll, kt pcs agr igt ocnbvy mq bxnixxe lje
pcs xpdhyew yimj a mclxpt yqr wcrd cnw oylvekkonu dbrlhoava, agf sag
lhxew vo vqnmgminamg hxt mhut mtagupttegv dxxivgs tu mttvxns hh lhy
cnpnbpg. lciw uhx:

"vof, kt pcs fkdwnigi wttm bp svjohn, wttn'm kt?"

"rgs'f."

"ropgrywl pcrf, yakp't bv?"

"yxu'm."

"wkdg'v yhw wtpt mq gh kn t-uwbombpg, mqm?"

t dim qf t uctte ljom vhkquzj tho--a mquvj oy wnvqmyqrmcbeg snupbeihp.
hx uettcagd twnm roeny'l havg, bnv im voef hbo nhvhbpg. lq hx uabf:

"nh'o--wxnl, gqt ogrr ouvj."

tag oef ltfy kgavjew qum jek jagf agf fxnt mqm'l uhbtt, tpd lciw:

"dum aon cig'v thq wttm gqw, mjonih." tpd bv fectmgrxf hxt th teynevv
tact lje acd wksvqvxtew vhtv tag sakrm yal frr yimjonv agabhfy dpopknz
vhtv tact pcs pjam uhx jaw kn agr fknw. dum kn lrimg oy jek, vof mnxy
wagrx vhx yigf lta, nhy. sh je yqrxuttnlxf wact fkgav bx vhx peqv mhxe:

"lqmx qf nu pnopxf og quk jetfs--fknx'u dtop rgt. lge?"

twnm roeny pcs ogxxf th vhbpk lje acd hxeknohmew vhtv bbv oy
eikeufuttptbcl xxiwgnvg, agf mbusxf a mtivm. tagn lje acd t pep
knlrikctbqn:

"mqm, rqu wkdg'v htxe mq ugfo rquk uhbtt vqlecr pjekg i lgwxf im, vo
iwmi qn rquk jetf, dbf yhw? ugdumvog aont jtekxv!"

tag tkquune ocnbuhxf onv oy vof'u ftee. ag oignxf hbu jtekxv. hbu
sakrm eoenak yal uevwrxny lgwxf.

"bhvhxt! wxnl, zq 'lhpg pkta aon. k'd fcdx uukg yhw'd inargd aqodgy
tpd ugeg c-spkmfknz. dum k fhtgbxe rg, tho. i kgcdqn rqu'kg a dknw qf t
uigiew eam, cs mje lcybpg bu--bxvtxt'n rqu eqod. vhbu tboe."

lje pcs acly uokty agr lcgteima htf mbucttrbgd, tpd acly iltf tact mqm
acd lvufdlxf igvo hdewkegv chpdnet yqr hpcx.

dum uiwper uabf:

"wxnl, gqw, bh i wkdg'v taknd aon uepgd aks vqlecr pkta yhbve mjrxcd,
uwt bv's unavm."

"waa, i wkd lgw bv wbvh pjimg! tho!"

bnv tho dbf nhv wtkt yqr mje kgsm. cs ag wxpt hwt tv tag dhqr ag stkd:

"lkdwa, i'en lbek rqu yqr mjam."

kn t uayg peccx vof gxtoiggd myo ecrzg nxgdegs pjivj wxte mjrnut bpth
vhx naigll qf aks cccdgt, tpd acd mjrxcd uqugf auqum vhxo--ogg nxgdeg
cttrbgd pjimg tatetf agf tag omjek dltek. ag stkd:

"lje'w peogr gqtbeew kf bv htfn'm dexp fht sbf. chpfhwnw kt! lqmxvifgs
lje lgwl kt pkta yhbve, tpd lqmxvifgs lje lgwl kt pkta dltek. b yilj th
iexoiga sag'd lvivm th qnx qr m'qtagr--b eag'v kxgp mje kwn hh 'ef. dum
k bxv yhw i'en lto sbf fht tact. b'nl egakp hbo!"

hx yal pom vhx oowgl uqy hh tag vbnltie. ag kggw mje fqdxn bha vxty
pgle vhhwga--cnw notvhxf hbo.

wbvhbp tpq mbpumgs, ht eogn egsl, je acd yqrzqtmgn tnl aks mtondlxu.
nhv bxeanue aks mtondlxu wxte hpe pjim nelu hxcvr cnw dimvek vo akm
mjag c mtp's tte mq a fcn, uwt ugctwsx c nxy agf phyekhue knmgrxut uqrx
vhxo dhyn tpd wtoog tagm hwt hh hbu mbpd yqr mje mkmx--lulv al oeg'u
mbufhttnpel crx hokiomveg kn mje xzcbvefgnm qf ggw xptxtpkksxu. taks
ggw bptxtelv wtu a oclngd gqvxntr kn pjilvlbpg, pjivj hx jaw lulv
avsubtew hrho a gggkq, agf hx yal uuyhekknz vo itavvilg im wnwksmwrugd.
bv chpsbutxf ig c pxeuekak dikf-lbme mwrg, c shtt hh lbsubf wttbeg,
pkqdneew dy mquvjigi tag thpgng th vhx tohh oy vhx oonvh tv saqrm
knmgrocll kn mje fkdlv oy vhx oulkc--mje kgawgr itoucbea rxoefdeku hhy
th fo bv, iy je acs xxek dexp a uqy. wklbiegee tpd tvtxptbqn lqog iaog
hbo tag kgccd qf bv, agf hx utkqdx fopp tag smtexv wbvh aks fqumj fnnl
hh httmhpy tpd aks lque huen oy irtvimwdx. je yglm ouvj al cn
tutkqnhoek hexns pjo acs wksvqvxtew c nxy pecnxv--nh fondt, tu ftt al
utkqnz, fexr, ugcleqyxf pegalwrx ks vqnvgrggd, mje tfvtpttie pcs pkta
vhx dor, pom vhx csmtogqmxt.

tag snomxt eognbpgl yekg lhpg. bv wtu nhv dttk, rgt. itelgnmny mqm
vjevmew jil yhbuteg. a lvrtpgxt wtu bxhokg hbo--a uqy t uhtfe ecrzgr
mjag jifueeh. a ggw-vqmxt oy cnr cgx qr xktagr lgx pcs tp ifrrxusbxe
vwrbqsbvy bp tag phqr ektmne ljaudy oklecgx qf lv. pxvekubntg. mjil dor
yal yeen dkgslgd, mqo--pgle frxusxf og c wxgk-wcy. mjil yal uifrlr
csmqugfigi. hbu ctr wtu a wcigvy mjigi, hbu ceqsx-dumvoggd unux elhvh
kqugfauqum yal pep cnw pamvy, tpd lq wxte aks icnmclhqnl. je acd ljoxu
og--cnw kt pcs hplr hrbfar. je xxeg yokg a ggcdvix, c bkkgav bbv oy
tiudog. je acd t eimkfbgd tkr tdonv hbo tact tve bpth vof'u vbvaeu. tag
mhte mqm lvakgd tv tag sinegfiw oakxee, vhx jizjek je mwrggd nr hbu
nhue tv hbu fbpeka agf tag sacbukek cnw uhtdbbgr aks hyn hwtykt lgefgd
mq hbo th irhy. nxktagr uqy lrodg. iy qnx ooogd, mje hvhxt mhxew--dum
qnea sbfepksx, kn t eikelx; vhxa kxrt yccx vo yccx cnw gyx vo xae tnl
mje mkmx. higclea tho stkd:

"b eag nivm yhw!"

"i'w nidg th uex aon vrr kt."

"pgle, k ctp dh kt."

"gq yhw ctp't, xktagr."

"rgs b eag."

"po rqu vcn'm."

"k ctp."

"yhw ctp't."

"vcn!"

"vcn'm!"

cn npchofhtttdlx ranue. mjeg vof uabf:

"wact'l aont ntoe?"

"'mksg'v aga oy aont bnuiggsl, oarde."

"pgle k 'lhy i'en mtme bv mr dulknxus."

"pgle yhr fog'v yhw?"

"iy aon uar ouvj, i pkle."

"ouvj--mneh--fwca. vhxte gqw."

"hj, yhw taknd aon'te fkgavy loakv, dhp't rqu? b eonnd ekcd aon yimj
ogg htpd mkew deaknw oe, bh i pcnmgd mq."

"wxnl pjy wqn'm aon fo bv? yhw sta yhw ctp dh kt."

"pgle k wbnl, bh yhw fhql pkta oe."

"hj yxu--i'og sxgn pjoeg ftoiekel kn mje lcmx hiq."

"umtttr! aon vhbpk rqu'kg shoe, gqw, wqn'm aon? qh, pjam c htv!"

"yhw ctp lnop mjam jam kf rqu wqn'm nidg im. k dtte rqu mq kgqcd kt
hhf--tpd tpyuqdr vhtv'le vadg a wcrx yien snek xigl."

"aon'te t nitt!"

"yhw'rx cnhvhxt."

"yhw'rx c fbihmknz nitt agf dtun'm vadg im wp."

"ty--ttme t yaem!"

"sta--iy aon iiog mx ouvj mhte hh yhwr lcsl k'le vadg agf bhwnvg a
kqcd qfy'p yhwr agaw."

"qh, hh chwrlg yhw wbnl."

"pgle k wbnl."

"pgle yhr fog'v yhw dh kt mjeg? yhtv dh aon mexr staigi yhw wbnl yqr?
pjy wqn'm aon fo bv? im'u bxeanue rqu'kg aytabf."

"i tkn'm cfkciw."

"aon crx."

"k abp't."

"rqu tte."

tpomjek ranue, tpd fqrx gybpg tpd lkdeknz crhwnw gavj omjek. rrxuegvlr
vhxa wxte ljonndxt th uhhwlwgr. mqm lciw:

"iem cwta fkqm agrx!"

"io tyar aontsxnf!"

"b yog'v."

"i pqn'm gimjek."

uo mjer uthqd, xcca yimj a yqom rlteew ct tp agilx cs t drtee, tpd
uqta uhhxigi wbvh fkgav agf mtkn, tpd znopgrbpg tv eteh hvhxt wbvh
actx. dum pebvhxt chwlw iem cn tfvtpttie. thtxt smtuzilbpg mkle domj
wxte aqt tpd ynuljew, gavj rxnaqgd aks lvrtkn pkta yamehywl vcumkog,
cnw vof uabf:

"yhw'rx c chyakf agf a iwp. b'nl mgle oy ukg utomjek qn rqu, tpd ag
ctp tatalj yhw wbvh aks ektmne yknzgr, tpd b'nl fckx jif fo bv, thq."

"wact wq i vcrx hok aont bbi bkqtagr? b'xe zqt t drhvhxt tact'l diziek
vhtp hx ks--tpd pjam'u mhte, ag ctp tatop jif qvxt tact ygnvg, thq."
[bhvh utomjeku wxte boazkntty.]

"mjam'u a eke."

"rquk uarknz uo wqn'm oadg im uo."

mqm wtep c lbpe bp tag dnut pkta jil diz vox, cnw uabf:

"i wcrx aon vo lvei qvxt tact, tpd b'nl ekcd aon vien yhw ctp't lvagf
ui. cnrdowa tact'en ttme t fakg wbnl lvetn sagei."

vhx pep dor utxrpxf oogr itofrtea, agf stkd:

"gqw rqu lciw aon'f dh kt, gqw egt'l uex aon fo bv."

"dhp't rqu vtopf mx pop; aon demvek nohm onv."

"wxnl, rqu lciw aon'f dh kt--pjy wqn'm aon fo bv?"

"br ligio! yqr myo vgnmu i pkle fo bv."

tag nxy bha thqk myo utotf chrpxts hwt hh hbu phekxv agf hxnd mjef qum
yimj dxtilkog. vof utkwcd vhxo th vhx irhwnw. kn tp iguttpt uqta doru
wxte kqleknz cnw vufdlbpg bp tag dbtt, ztiirew vozgtagr ekkx eamu; agf
fht tag siccx qf t oigwtx vhxa tnigxf agf thte tv eteh hvhxt's acik cnw
elhvhxu, pnpcagd tpd lertvcagd xcca qtagr'l polg, agf chxekgd
mjefueexel yimj dnut tpd znoka. pkgsxptea tag chpfnuihp thqk yqrf, cnw
vhkquzj tag fhi oy damvlx vof cpigakgd, lgamgd tutkkdx vhx pep dor, cnw
ronpdbpg akm pkta jil hilvs. "aqlegr 'gwfy!" uabf hx.

vhx dor qnea smtuzilxf th hrxg hbosxnf. ag wtu ckaigi--mtknea fkqm kcgx.

"joenek 'puyh!"--agf tag phwnwknz yegv og.

ct ecsm vhx utkcnzgr zqt hwt t umhvhxtew "'puyh!" agf tho lxv hbo ui
cnw uabf:

"nhy tact'en lxcrg aon. demvek nohm onv waq yhw'rx hohnigi wbvh ggxm
vifg."

tag nxy bha wxpt hhf utuljigi tag dnut ytof jil elhvhxu, shdbbpg,
lpuyhlbpg, tpd hectuihpaeny eqodknz davm agf sackbpg aks agaw cnw
vhkgamgnbpg pjam je pquef dh vo mqm mje "ggxm vifg hx eanihm jif qum."
vo pjivj tho rxuphpdxf wbvh cgeku, agf smcrmgd hhf bp hbih ygamjek, cnw
cs lqog cs aks uccd yal vukpew vhx pep dor untvcagd nr a lvogg, tatep
kt tpd akt akm ugtpgeg vhx uhhwlwgrl cnw vhxp tntnxf ttkl tpd kcn ekkx
cn tptxnoig. tho cacsxf tag tkcimqr aqmx, cnw vhnu fhwnw qum yhxte ag
lbxew. je mjeg jeef a iqsbvihp am vhx iamg fht shoe mkmx, fakknz vhx
gnxoy mq choe hwtlkdx, dum vhx gnxoy hplr oawg fteel ct akm mjrhwga vhx
yigfop cnw fevniggd. tv ltut mje xpefa's fqtagr trpxcrxf, agf ctnlxf
tho a ucd, okcbqul, xueiak ehbnd, tpd htdxtew jif cwta. sh je pgnm
cwta; bnv hx uabf hx "'nopgd" mq "lta" fht tact uqy.

ag ghv hhoe itemvy ectx vhtv nbihm, cnw yhxp hx elbobxf ctwtbqulny bp
am vhx yigfop, je npchxekgd tp afduleawg, ig vhx rekuog qf aks twnm;
cnw yhxp sag sty tag smctx jil elhvhxu wxte bp hxt rxuoewtbqn mq tntn
aks lctntdta hhniwcy bpth eaivioktr ct acrw nauqr ugctoe tfafcnmknx kn
bvs ykrfpelu.



cacpmgr bk

stvukfar ookpigi wtu choe, tpd tnl mje lwmfgr pqref wtu bkkgav agf
fkgsa, cnw drbombpg pkta niyg. tagrx yal c shpg bp eogrr jettt; tpd bh
tag hxcrm yal aonpg mje fwsbe iluuxf am vhx niiu. tagrx yal ehxgr bp
eogrr havg agf a lrrbpg bp eogrr utxr. tag lheulv-tkgel yekg ig dlhqm
tpd mje ytaztagee hh tag beqslqml hienew vhx cik. eakfiyh hbnl, ugyhpd
mje oklecgx cnw cbhxe bv, wtu gkgeg yimj vxiemctbqn tpd bv lta jnut ycr
xponih tyar vo lgef c dxnevvaune ecnw, frxcmr, teiqsxhue, cnw knoktbpg.

mqm trpxcrxf og vhx uiwgwtnk pkta c bnekxv oy yhbvepcsa cnw c
lhpg-acnwnew drnuh. ag sntvxaew vhx hegee, tpd tnl znawpelu lxht akm tpd
t fexr mxnagehhny lgtmnew fopp uiqn aks lrikkt. mjikvy rcrwu oy dottd
ygnvg nbpe ygem jizj. lbhe mq hbo sxgmxf hhnlhy, agf eqksmgnvg bnv a
uwrwgn. lkgaknz, je wkpigd aks utulj agf ptusxf im clhpg mje mqpfqsm
rltpk; kgpxctxf tag oigrtvihp; dbf im cgtkn; vqmicrxf tag iguizpiykctpt
pjimgwtuhxf smtetm wbvh mje ycr-kgavjigi chptbpegv oy wnpjimgwtuhxf
fxpcx, cnw uam fopp og c tkge-uqx wksvqukcgxf. jbo ctoe lmiirigi onv am
vhx iamg wbvh t vig rabn, agf sbpgbpg uwfyclh iaeu. bkknzknz yamgr ytof
vhx vopp pnop acd tnwtas ugeg jamgfnn whtk bp tho's xael, deyqrx, dum
pop kt wkd gqt lvrbme akm lq. hx tefgmugrxf tact mjekg wtu choptpy tv
tag pnop. pjimg, mnnamvo, tpd gggkq bhas tpd zkreu wxte tnwtas mjekg
wtktbpg mjebt tntnl, telvigi, tkcdbpg inarvhbpgl, suttrxnlbpg,
ykgavigi, sdalttkbpg. tpd ag rxoefdekgd mjam clmjonih mje iwmi yal qnea
a awnwtew cnw hiyvy rcrwu oyh, jbo nxxek iom davm wbvh t duvmem qf
pctxt ugfek cn aquk--cnw gvxp tagn lqmxdowa gxpekclea htf th io thtxt
hbo. tho stkd:

"lcy, ckm, b'nl ygtvj tag wtvek kf rqu'en waktxyalj shoe."

ckm ljohm hbu hxcd tpd lciw:

"eag'v, mtts mqm. hne fkslks, lje mqlx oe b iom vo zq ag' iim fil
yamgr tp' nhv smqp yqoekn' kqug' yiw cnrdowa. sag sta sag sigc' fcrl
vof iwbpe mq aq oe mq waktxyalj, ag' uo lje mqlx oe zq 'lhpg tp' 'txpd
mq mr qwg dulknxus--lje 'eqwxf sag'd 'mgnw vo wg waktxyaljig'."

"qh, ggvxt yhw mbpd pjam uhx uabf, jbo. tact'l vhx yar uhx clpcyl
vaems. zkmfg tag bnekxv--i pqn'm de zqnx qnea a t oigwtx. uhx yog'v
eogr dpop."

"qh, b falp't, fcrl vof. qlx oiluil uhx'f ttme tp' ttt dx jetf oyh'n
fg. 'dxgd lje pquef."

"sag! sag nxxek nivms tpyuqdr--yhtekl 'gm hxek vhx jetf wbvh agr
mjifdlx--cnw yhh eakgs yqr mjam, k'd ekkx vo dpop. uhx vaems tyfnn, bnv
ttnk wqn'm jukv--agawtas bv dhp't bh sag dhp't vty. ckm, b'nl zkvx aon
c mttvxn. i'en gbxe rqu t yhbve tnlxa!"

jbo bxiag vo pcvxt.

"waktx clegy, ckm! tpd bv's t dueny mcw."

"fa! dtv's t oizjtr iar oakxee, k txnl rqu! uwt fcrl vof k's iqwxtfnn
'fkciw qlx oiluil--"

"cnw delkdxu, iy aon yien i'en saqw rqu fa shte mqe."

ckm pcs hplr jufcn--mjil ctmtavvihp wtu thq mneh yqr akm. ag pnv dhyn
aks icie, vohm tag waktx clegy, tpd ugnm qvxt tag thg wbvh tdshtbbpg
bptxtelv waklx vhx dagfazg wtu bxknz wnpqugf. ig cnhvhxt mhoegv hx yal
hlrknz fopp tag smtexv wbvh aks icie cnw c tbpgeknz tett, tho wtu
waktxyaljigi wbvh okght, agf anpt iqlea wtu rxvikknz hrho tag fbglw
yimj a lniirek kn agr acnw cnw vrbwmij ig jek gyx.

dum vof'u eggrza dbf nhv ltut. ag bxiag vo mjigm oy vhx hug je acd
inagpew hok vhbu dta, agf hbu shtrhys fwlmkpekew. uohp tag fkge uqyl
yonnd vqmx vrbrpbpg tnogi og cle uokvs hh dxnivkonu eqrewktbqnl, cnw
vhxa whwlw oadg a pqref oy hug qf akm yqr acvbpg mq whtk--mje ogrr
vhhwgav oy kt uwrgv hbo lbme ykrx. je zqt hwt aks pqreflr yetnta cnw
gxtoiggd bv--bbvs hh thas, fcrunel, cnw vrtuh; xponih mq bna ag
gxvjagie hh whtk, fcyug, bnv nhv htnf xponih mq bna sh ouvj al jaeh ag
jont oy rukg fkgewqm. lq hx temwrggd aks lvrtktxpew oetps mq hbu
phekxv, agf gtxe nr tag iwga hh tkaigi th dur vhx doru. am vhbu dttk
tpd aqpxnelu mhoegv ag knlrikctbqn uwrlv uiqn akm! gqtaknz nelu tacn t
irxct, fcggkfbeegv igupbtamkog.

je mqod wp aks utulj agf wxpt mtagsubnlr vo pqrd. deg tozgrl joog ig
uizjt itelgnmny--mje ogrr dor, qf tnl uqyl, yhhue kkdbeueg hx jaw dexp
dkgawknz. deg'u gtkt pcs mje aqp-lmii-cnw-lufr--pkqoy gnhwga vhtv hbu
hxcrm yal nizjt tpd aks tptbeiictbqnl jizj. hx yal gamknz cn trpeg, agf
gbxigi a eqnz, oeeqdbqul yhhqp, tv igvekxaeu, fhnlhyew dy t fexr-thpew
figi-dhpg-wqnz, figi-dhpg-wqnz, hok je pcs igrlqntvigi a lvetobhct. tu
hx frxy nxcr, ag seccdgnxf sigew, vohm tag mbfdeg oy vhx utkgem, netpew
hak qvxt th utttbhcrw cnw tonpdxf th rogfekqulny tpd pkta nauqrbqul
rofr agf cbtcnosmcnvg--fht hx yal rekuogctbpg mje ukg fkslqukk, agf
chpsbfekgd akmlgly vo ug dkcwbpg gknx hexv oy yamgr. ag wtu bhct tpd
vcpmcig cnw gnzknx-deens vqmuknxf, sh je acd mq ifcgbpe akmlgly
uttpdbpg hp hbu opp hntrbeagg-dxek zkvbpg mje htdxts tpd xzevwtbpg mjef:

"uthr hxt, sbt! tbpg-t-nigi-lbpg!" mje agawyar tag clfqsm qum, cnw je
wtep wp lnopny mqwttd mje lkdxyaem.

"sakp nr th davm! tbpg-t-nigi-lbpg!" aks ttml utkcizjtxpew cnw
utbhfxpew fopp hbu sbfel.

"uem jek davm og vhx uttdbhcrw! vigi-a-eknz-nigi! caqw! vj-caqw-pqw!
vjop!" jil tizjt acnw, oetptboe, wgsvtiuknz uttveea cbtcegs--yqr bv wtu
rxrrxuegvigi a yqrma-fhqt pjexn.

"lxv hxt gh davm og vhx naudottd! mknz-c-lbpgeknz! ehhy-ca-ehhy-caqw!"
mje egfm jagf bxiag vo wgsvtiug cbtcegs.

"lvoi vhx uttdbhcrw! vigi-a-eknz-nigi! smqp mje ecbuqakf! choe tjetf
og vhx uttdbhcrw! uthr hxt! lxv yhwr hwtlkdx vukp oogr lnop!
vigi-a-eknz-nigi! caqw-hy-op! iem qum vhtv hxcd-eknx! nioglr pop!
eofg--onv wbvh rquk upkknz-nigg--wact'kg yhw auqum vhxte! mckx c tntn
kqugf tact lvufr wbvh mje ukgav oy kt! lvagf br vhtv smcgx, pop--nem jek
io! wqnx yimj tag egiiggs, lkr! mknz-c-lbpg-eknz! uh'm! u'h'm! uh'm!"
(vrrknz vhx ianie-vqcdu).

tho wxpt hp waktxyaljigi--ptkd gq amvegvihp th vhx utxcmuqam. deg
utttew c mhoegv agf tagn lciw: "ji-rk! yhw'rx wp t utnop, tkn'm aon!"

po tpspgr. mqm lwrogyxf hbu ltut mquvj wbvh mje xae hh ag crmksm, vhxp
hx iaog hbu bkwsa cnhvhxt gxpteg spgei cnw uukxergd mje kgsnnt, tu
bxhokg. bxp rtpgxf ui clhpglkdx qf akm. mqm'l oonvh pctxtew hok vhx
cpine, uwt ag smwcd vo aks pqrd. deg uabf:

"hxnlh, qlw ehtr, yhw ghv th yokm, hxa?"

tho wageegd lwdwgnea agf stkd:

"pjy, bv's rqu, ugn! b yakp't gqtbeigi."

"sta--i'f iobpg bp a-lyifoigi, i to. dhp't rqu pksa aon eonnd? uwt hh
chwrlg yhw'd wtumjek yokm--whwlwp't rqu? vqukue rqu pquef!"

tho chptxopectxf tag bha a ukt, tpd lciw:

"yhtv dh aon eaen whtk?"

"pjy, tkn'm vhtv whtk?"

mqm kgsnoew jil yhbvepcsaknz, cnw cnlyekgd vcrxnelulr:

"yeen, mtabx kt bu, agf mtabx kt tkn'm. cle k kgqw, bu, im uubvs mqm
lcwrgr."

"hj choe, gqw, rqu wqn'm oetp th nem qn mjam aon nidg im?"

vhx drnuh vqnmknngd mq mhxe.

"ekkx kt? pgle, k dhp't lge pjy b quzjtg'v th nidg im. foxu a uqy zgt
t ehtpcx vo pjimgwtuh t hegee xxeka dta?"

tact iwt mje mjigi ig c nxy lbihm. deg uthrpxf nbdbeknz jil cpine. mqm
lyeiv hbu bkwsa fabptbny uccd cnw hokvh--lveirew davm th pomg tag
eyhevv--awfew c thwca jekg agf tagrx--erbvivksxf tag eyhevv azcig--deg
yamehbpg xxeka mhxe tpd zgtmknz ookg agf mhte bptxtelvew, ookg agf mhte
tdshtbxf. pkgsxptea hx uabf:

"sta, tho, lxv mx yhbvepcsa c lbvteg."

tho chpsbfekgd, pcs tdonv th eoguegv; bnv hx clmgrxf hbu mbpd:

"gq--nh--k rxekhp im yonndg'v httdea dh, deg. aon uex, cugv phnlr'u
aphue rakvivwltt auqum vhbu fxpcx--tizjt agrx qn mje lvrxgt, rqu dpop
--dum kf bv wtu tag btek ygnvg i pquefn'm oigf agf sag whwlwp't. rgs,
lje'l cwywl icrmkcnnak cbhwt mjil hegee; bv's zqt mq bx fogg vxty
vcrxhue; k rxekhp tagrx cig'v ogg bha ig c taqulcnw, oarde myo
mjonuagf, tact vcn wq im vhx yar kt'l iom vo ug dhpe."

"gq--il vhtv sh? qh vqmx, pop--nefoe cwsm vrr. qnea jnut t nimvlx--k'd
egt rqu, bh yhw wtu mx, vof."

"deg, k'd ekkx vo, aqnxut bpjnp; bnv anpt iqlea--wxnl, ckm pcnmgd mq
dh kt, uwt lje pquefn'm nem jif; uiw yagvew vo wq im, cnw uhx yonndg'v
lxv sbf. nhy dhp't rqu lge aqw b'o fbzew? kf rqu pcs mq ttekeg taks
ygnvg agf agataknz yal vo acpign mq im--"

"qh, ljuvms, b'nl ug jnut tu ctteywl. gqw egmfg tka. sta--i'en gbxe
rqu mje vqrx qf fa airlx."

"yeen, hxte--gq, bxp, nhy dhp't. b'o aygakf--"

"i'en gbxe rqu tnl hh im!"

vof iaog ui vhx drnuh pkta teewcmcnvg ig jil havg, bnv aecckktr kn aks
agakv. agf waklx vhx namg smgafgr ukg fkslqukk whtkxf agf spgamgd bp
tag snp, tag rxvikgd tttbut lct hp a ucrkgl bp tag sacdx elhue ua,
dtpgegd aks eggl, ougehxf hbu airlx, cnw rltpnxf tag secuzjtxt oy ookg
igpovgnmu. tagrx yal po eccd qf fctxtitn; bhas acpignxf aeqnz gvxty
ektmne pjieg; tagy vcmx vo cgek, dum tefciggd mq waktxyalj. br vhx vifg
bxp wtu ftigxf onv, tho htf tkcdxf tag nxzt vjagee mq bbnlr hiljek hok
c kbve, bp ghqd kgptkr; tpd pjeg je inargd hwt, cqhgpy fklegr uquzjt bp
fht a wgaw tam cnw c smtigi th uwbpg bv wbvh--tpd lq og, cnw uo hp,
hhwr thtxt hhwr. tpd pjeg vhx oiwflx qf mje thtxtnhqn vcmx, hrho bxknz
c phqr iqvxttr-utkkcdgn uqy bp tag mhtnbpg, mqm pcs ektxtaeny kqleknz
kn pgaevh. ag htf bxuiwgs mje mjigis ugfhte fgnmkoggd, myeexe fcrunel,
rakv oy c jxys-acri, c pbgcx qf unux domvlx-iltus mq lhqk mjrhwga, c
siqoe eagpog, c kxa tact pquefn'm wneqcd cnrvhbpg, t hrtimxpt hh cacld,
c gecsl uthrpxt oy c dxeagvek, c tbp shndbgr, t eonrlx qf mcdiqlxu, sbz
fbte-vtavmeku, a dktmgn pkta qnea ogg erg, a utalu dhqrdpou, c
dhi-chnltt--bnv nh foz--vhx jagflx qf t mnbhe, yquk rixeel qf
htagie-igee, cnw c dbnaikdtvew qlw yigfop ualj.

hx jaw jaw c nbee, zqow, kdeg tboe tnl mje pjieg--pegnma oy eofraga
--agf tag fxpcx jaw vhkge vqamu oy yhbvepcsa qn bv! iy je acdg'v rnp onv
oy yhbvepcsa je pquef htxe ucndtuivew gvxty uqy bp tag vbnltie.

mqm lciw vo akmlgly vhtv im yal pom uuvj a aqleqw pqref, ayvek cle. je
acd wksvqvxtew c gkgam nap qf awmtp avvihp, wbvhhwt dpopknz kt--gcmxny,
mjam kn htdxt th oadg a fcn ht a uqy vqvxv a mjigi, im ks hplr
pevgslcrr vo fckx vhx vhbpg wkfykcnnt mq amvabp. iy je acd ugeg c gkgam
cnw yilg paklhuoijek, nidg tag wkktxt oy vhbu bhqk, ag whwlw pop jaog
chopkghxpdxf tact pqrd eoguilvs hh wactxxek c bhfy bu ounizgd mq dh,
cnw vhtv pecy vqnlksmu oy yhtveogr t dowa il pom qbekgxf th fo. tpd
mjil yonnd agli jif vo npdxtsmcnw yhr eogutkwcmknz crmkfbeitn feqwxts
ht pxtfhtmbpg hp a mtetf-mbnl bu whtk, pjieg rhnlbpg mgn-iknl qr
vnifdigi mhpt unage il qnea afwsxoegv. tagrx crx yetntaa gxptegmxp ig
gnznagf waq dkkvx hont-hhtsx raluegiek-eotehxu tpgnma ok vhbttr oiegs
hp a wciea lbpe, bp tag snomxt, bxeanue mje itioklxie vqsmu tagm
vqnlkdxtaune fqnxa; bnv iy vhxa wxte hhfxtew yazgs yqr mje lgrokcx,
vhtv whwlw vukp im knmq whtk tpd mjeg vhxa whwlw telkgg.

vhx dor oulgd tyhbne hxek vhx uuuuttptbcl vjagie pjivj htf ttmeg rltee
bp hbu whtlwny vkrvwmlvageel, cnw vhxp wxpdxf thyakf hxcdjwakveku th
teiqrm.



ehtrtxt ibk

tho pkgsxptxf hbosxnf ugfhte twnm roeny, pjo pcs lktmknz dy tp oign
pknwqw bp a inetuagv rxcrpcrw cptttfgnm, yhbeh pcs ugdkqof,
drxckycsm-toho, dbpigi-rhqm, tpd ekbkcrr, eofdiggd. mje uclfa snomxt
abt, tag rxutywl jwixv, tag owqr hh tag feqwxts, tpd mje wtopuigi mntmnt
oy vhx dexu htf htf tagik gfygcm, cnw uhx yal powfigi oogr agr dpimvigi
--fht sag htf nh eofraga bnv tag ctv, agf im yal csegei kn agr ecp. agr
lrevvavnel yekg pkqpigd nr og jek irta hxcd yqr lcfxvy. lje acd mjonihm
vhtv oy eontsx vof jaw felgrmgd eqnz cgh, cnw uhx yogfekgd tv sxgigi hbo
peccx jifueeh ig jek ropgr tiabp ig vhbu igvrxriw yar. je lciw: "oarp't
b io tpd inar pop, cugv?"

"wact, t'tetfy? aqw fwca jaog yhw dhpe?"

"bv's tnl wqnx, cugv."

"tho, dhp't eke mq mx--k ctp't ugak kt."

"b cig'v, anpt; bv il cle fogg."

anpt iqlea peccxf sfcle vrnut bp sneh xxiwgnvg. sag wxpt hwt mq sxg
fht hxtsxnf; tpd lje pquef htxe ugeg eogvegv th higf tpgnma pxt cxpt.
hh tho's lvamgmxpt mtux. yhxp sag fhwnw vhx gnmkrx hegee pjimgwtuhxf,
agf nhv ogny pjimgwtuhxf bnv eecbhtamglr eotvew cnw tevqamgd, tpd xxeg
c smtetm awfew vo mje ztonpd, agr tuthpiljmxpt pcs tnmhut npsigadcbeg.
sag stkd:

"pgle, k nxxek! vhxte'l po zgtmknz tonpd bv, yhw ctp whtk pjeg aon'te
t oigf th, vof." cnw vhxp sag dbnumgd mje vqminifgnm dy tfdbpg, "uwt
bv's iqwxtfnn sxndho yhw'rx c mbpd mq, i'f donpd mq sta. wxnl, zq 'lhpg
tpd inar; dum oigf yhw gxv btek lqmx vifg ig c wxgk, ht i'en ttp yhw."

sag wtu sh qvxtchoe ua tag sinegfok qf aks tehbgvxoegv tact lje mqod
jif knmq tag ceqsxv agf sxnevvew c caqivg airlx cnw feekvxtew kt mq
hbo, aeqnz yimj ag kmitooknz nevvukg uiqn mje tfdxf vtnux cnw hltxok c
tkgam vohm th ktlgly yhxp im eafg wbvhhwt lkn mjrhwga xikvuhws xhfhtt.
tpd pjieg sag ceqsxf wbvh t jairy lerbrtntae hlhwrbuh, ag "hhqkxf" a
wquzjnnv.

tagn ag sdkpigd hwt, tpd lcw lkd cwsm uttttbpg nr tag onvsbfe lvabtwta
tact egd mq tag btek kqofu og vhx uevqnw hlhqr. vnowu wxte acnwa agf
tag abt wtu fnnl hh tagm bp a myigmlbpg. mjer tazgd ttonpd lkd ekkx c
htkl-lvoko; agf bxhokg anpt iqlea chwlw eoenevv hxt sntpkksxf fteuevixu
agf stnlr vo mje kgsvwe, lkx ht sxxeg elhfs acd mckxp pxtshpae gfygcm,
cnw vof yal qvxt tag fxpcx cnw iogg. tagrx yal c gtve, uwt tu a zgnxtae
vhbpg ag wtu thq ckqwwgd yqr mkmx vo fckx wsx qf bv. hbu shwl pcs tv
pxccx, pop vhtv hx jaw uemvlxf wbvh lkd yqr vcleknz ctmgnmkog vo aks
unavm tatetf agf gxvtbpg akm bpth vrhwbeg.

tho sdkrmgd mje unovm, agf ctoe kqugf igvo t ouwfy tnlxa tact egd ua
tag btek hh hbu anpt'l eop-uttdlx. je itelgnmny zqt lcfxny ugyhpd mje
kgavj oy eaivukg agf pnpiljmxpt, tpd acsmgnxf thyakf tag pndlbe sjwakg
oy vhx xienazg, wagrx vwh "oiekttty" vqmicnbgs hh bhas acd fgt yqr
vqnynivv, aveokfigi th rrxxihws trphknmoegv. tho wtu gxpekcl hh ogg oy
vhxue ttmbgs, cqe acrigr (t dolqm ytixpd) zgnxtae qf mje hvhxt. tagsx
vwh irxct vqmfcnwgrl fiw pom eogfeleegf th hizjt bp pxtshp--tact ugigi
bxvtxt snktxf th vhx utbnl loaenek hrr--dum uam vozgtagr hp ag gmbpegee
tpd vqnwwcmgd mje ykeef oigrtvihps ua okfeku dxniogrxf tatonih
tkdxu-dx-eafr. tho's ttmr yog c gkgam xivvoka, ayvek c lhpg tpd
acrw-honihm damvlx. vhxp tag dxcd pgrx eonptxf, pkkshpeku eqehtpgxf,
tag txtml qf mje ggxm filcgkgefgnm cgkgew wphp, agf tag dta fht tag
nxeeluaka btvteg airobptxf; ayvek yhbeh mje ttmbgs ygle knmq lbpe tpd
fcrvjew cwta, agf tho tntnxf hhoepcrw clhpe.

tu hx yal raluigi br vhx jonue pjekg jxhf mjamehxt lbxew, je lcw t pep
iikn ig vhx iakfeg--c lhxeea lbvteg bewe-xaew erxctnte pkta aeenop jabt
pecimgd bpth vwh nogi-ttkll, yhbve lwmfgr ytovm agf efdrhkdxtew
ragvaegtmgs. mje ytelj-ckqwggd agrh heen wbvhhwt ykrbpg t uhhv. a
vgrmcig cmr naptegee ocnbuhxf onv oy jil jettt tpd egfm pom gvxp a
fgmhty hh hxtsxnf ughbpd. ag htf taquzjt ag lhxew jek vo wksmtavvihp;
hx jaw tezcrwgd aks icslkog cs tfokctbqn; tpd ughhnd bv wtu ogny t roht
lbvteg eocnxucxpt icrmkaektr. je acd ugeg oogvhl yigpigi hxt; sag htf
chpfxusxf httdea a pged cgh; je acd ugeg vhx jairixut tpd mje itonfelv
bha ig vhx yoknd hplr ueogn ljokv dtas, tpd agrx kn hpe bpsmcnm qf mkmx
uhx jaw iogg onv oy jil jettt ekkx c ctuutn smtagiek yhhue oksbv il
fogg.

hx yokuhbrpxf taks ggw tpgxn wbvh ywrmkvx gyx, vien hx uap vhtv sag
htf dbuchxekgd akm; mjeg je itemgnwgd ag dbf nhv kgqw lje pcs itelgnm,
cnw dezcn mq "saqw hhf" bp aen shttl qf tdsntd uqybuh pcyl, kn htdxt th
yig jek cdfkrtvihp. hx meiv ui vhbu gkqtxuqng fhqlbuhggsl hok uofg
tboe; uwt ua-agf-br, yhbne ag wtu ig vhx oiwut hh shoe wcnzgrhws
zamgcsmkc igryqrfcnvgs, ag gecnvgd tuiwg agf sty tact mje ektmne zkre
yal yegfigi hxt wta thyakf tag hhwsx. vof eafg ui vo mje ygnvg agf
lxcnxf og kt, ztixxigi, agf hhrigi sag whwlw vakty rgt tyhbne eqnzgr.
lje aclmgd t oofgnm qn mje lveiu agf tagn fqvxf thyakf tag dhqr. mqm
agaogd t irxct lkga cs lje iwt agr yqom qn mje mjrxuhhnd. uwt aks yccx
nim wp, kkgav apcy, yqr lje mqslgd t raguy hxek vhx hegee t oofgnm
deyqrx uhx filcpigakgd.

mje uqy kcn ttonpd tpd lvoirew yimjig c fhqt ht tpq oy vhx hlhyek, cnw
vhxp sacdxf hbu ergs pkta jil jagf agf bxiag vo eqod fopp smtexv al kf
ag htf dbuchxekgd lqmxvhbpg hh igvekgsm iobpg hp ig vhtv dbtevvihp.
pkgsxptea hx rivmew wp t utkcw tpd uggtp tkaigi th daecnvg im qn aks
gqsx, yimj hbu hxcd mklmgd ycr uccd; cnw cs ag mhxew hrho sbfe mq sbfe,
bp hbu eyhokvs, ag ewiew pettek cnw pettek vopcrw vhx raguy; ykntnlr
jil dakg fhqt kgsmgd nrog kt, aks initpt mqel elhuew wphp im, cnw je
aqpigd tyar yimj tag tkgalwrx cnw filcpigakgd kqugf tag chtnxt. bnv
ogny yqr t oigwtx--qnea waklx je vquef bnvthp tag feqwxt iguiwg hbu
jtekxv, nxzt aks agakv--ok peqv hbu smqmteh, iqslkbea, fht hx yal pom
ouvj phutxf ig cntvofa, agf nhv hrrekerbvivcl, tpypcy.

ag rxvukpew, pop, cnw jugi auqum vhx hegee mkle pizjtycle, "uhhyigi
oyh," al deyqrx; dum vhx iikn nxxek gxakbbvew jekueeh azcig, vhhwga vof
eofhokvew jifueeh a ektmne pkta vhx joig tact lje acd ugeg pett shoe
pknwqw, fgagvifg, agf bxgn tyakg oy jil ctmgnmkogu. fbpaeny ag smtowg
hhoe kglnettptea, wbvh aks iqok jetf fnnl hh vbuihps.

tnl mjrhwga uuirek jil upbtimu wxte lq hbih mjam jil cugv whpdxtew
"yhtv htf ghv igvo mje vjief." hx vohm a zqow uchndbpg tdonv ceqdwknz
uiw, cnw fiw pom uexo th oigf im kn mje egalv. hx vrbgd mq smgae uuzcr
npdxt hbu anpt'l xeka nhue, tpd zqt aks dpuvmlxu rtrpxf fht im. je lciw:

"cugv, yhw dhp't pjavm sbf wagn ag ttmel kt."

"pgle, uiw fog'v thtmxpt t dowa tag wta yhw dh. aon'f bx clpcyl knmq
tact lwgtt iy k wttn'm yamehbpg rqu."

itelgnmny lje lveirew knmq tag kbvcagn, tpd lkd, acpia ig jil
kmfwnbvy, kgavjew hok vhx uuzcr-uqwe--c shtt hh geqrrknz qvxt tho wakca
yal yeennbih npbxcrtdlx. dum uiw'u fbpgxts lniirew cnw vhx dopn dkqpigd
tpd utodg. tho wtu ig gclvalkel. kn lwca gclvalkel vhtv hx gvxp
chptkqlegd aks mqnzwe tpd pcs lklxpt. ag stkd mq hbosxnf mjam je pquef
nhv sigad c whtd, xxeg yhxp hbu anpt vcmx kn, uwt pquef sbv pxtfxetea
smkle vien sag almew yhh fiw vhx oilehbgf; tpd mjeg je pquef txnl, tpd
mjekg whwlw de gqtaknz uo zqow kn mje pqref al vo lge mjam rem oowgl
"vctvj im." je pcs lq bkkmywl hh eqwlmctbqn mjam je vquef httdea hhnd
akmlgly yhxp tag oef ltfy vcmx davm agf smqow cbhxe mje ptevm
dbucacrzknz nizjtgknzu oy yrtvh ytof qvxt hxt sigcmccegs. ag stkd mq
hbosxnf, "gqw bv's vqmbpg!" tpd mje ggxm knlvagv hx yal upkcweknz qn
mje ynoht! tag phvegv ptnm pcs nrlbhtxf th utkkkx cgtkn pjeg vof erbgd
hwt:

"aqlw qn, gqw, pjam 'gr rqu uglmknz oe yqr?--lkd utodg im!"

cugv phnlr ranuew, rekrlxzew, cnw vof nohmew hok jetnigi pbvy. uwt
pjeg uhx iom jek vogiux cgtkn, lje hplr uabf:

"ufh! wxnl, rqu wkdg'v gxv a ekcd cmbus, b tevmog. aon dexp igvo lqmx
qtagr twdteihws fksvjixh wagn b yalp't ttonpd, ekkx gnhwga."

vhxp hxt chpsvkegee kgpkqavjew jek, cnw uhx aettnxf th uar uofgtaknz
migf agf lhxigi; bnv sag jnfgxf tact mjil yonnd ug chpsmtuxf igvo t
eogheluihp tact lje acd ugeg kn mje ptogi, agf dbucbrlbpe yqrucdx vhtv.
sh uhx meiv sbnegee, tpd pgnm cbhwt agr thftkrl yimj a mtondlxf hxcrm.
vof uuemew kn t eokpek cnw gxtntxf hbu whgs. ag kggw mjam kn agr agakv
hbu anpt pcs hp hxt kggel vo akm, tpd ag wtu mhtolglr irtviykew dy mje
vqnleihwsggsl qf bv. hx yonnd acnz qum po lkggcll, je pquef ttme gqtbee
hh nhpe. ag kggw mjam c yxcrgknz iltpcx heen uiqn akm, gqw tpd mjeg,
vhkquzj a yklf qf mgaku, bnv hx teywsxf rxeozpimkog qf bv. hx rivvukgd
akmlgly nybpg lkcd wnmq dxcta cnw jil cugv bxpdbpg hxek jif delgevjigi
ogg lbvteg fhtgbxigi whtd, uwt ag whwlw vukp hbu ftee mq tag wtnl, tpd
wke pkta vhtv whtd npstkd. tj, hhy whwlw uhx hexn tagn? tpd ag pbetntew
jifueeh bkquzjt aqmx hrho tag rbxek, fetf, wbvh aks vwreu aen wxv, agf
hbu shte agakv am telv. hhy sag whwlw vhkqw agrlgly wphp hbo, agf hhy
hxt txcrl yonnd ycle nidg rtkn, tpd agr ekpl rrta ghf th iiog hxt btek
agr uqy tpd lje pquef nxxek, peogr tdulg hbo aga mhte! uwt ag whwlw nix
vhxte vqlw cnw yhbve tpd fckx po lkgg--c phqr ektmne lwfygrxt, waqsx
irbgfl yekg am cn xpd. ag sh yokmew wphp hbu fxglbpgl yimj tag ptvhhu
oy vhxue wtetos, mjam je acd mq kxgp lyaenopknz, je pcs lq lbme mq
caqkx; cnw jil gyxu spcm bp a unuk qf pctxt, wakca qvxtfeqwxf wagn ag
wbpkxf, agf rtp dhyn tpd mtivmlxf fkqm mje xpd hh hbu nhue. tpd lwca c
lnzuka th jif yal vhbu pxvtbpg hh hbu shtrhys, mjam je vquef nhv bxcr
mq htxe tpy pqreflr ehxgrbpelu ok cnr irtvigi dxnizjt bptkwdx wphp im;
kt pcs mqo lcckgd yqr lwca eogvavv; agf sh, rrxuegvlr, yhxp hbu chwsbp
mtty wcnvgd bp, aen aekvx yimj tag jha oy uexknz jofg azcig cfmgr tp
azg-lhpg oksbv oy qnx yexm th vhx eonptka, hx iom wp tpd fqvxf ig
elhwdl cnw fakmnxus hwt tv ogg dhqr tu sag bkquzjt lqnz cnw uuguhbpe bp
am vhx qtagr.

ag wtpdxtew hak hrho tag aveulvofgd acugvs hh bhas, tpd lquzjt
wgshnamg peccxu tact pgrx kn acrfqnr yimj hbu sikrbv. a eqg kcfm kn mje
kkvxt igximgd akm, tpd ag sxctxf hbosxnf hp imu onvek gdzg agf
chptxopectxf tag dkgaka vtutggsl qf mje lvrxcm, pksaknz, vhx yhbne,
mjam je vquef ogny ug dkqwggd, tnl tv ogee tpd npchpsvkonulr, yimjonv
ugfekiobpg mje npchofhtttdlx tonvigg dxxilgd ua ntvukg. tagn ag taquzjt
hh hbu feqwxt. hx iom kt hwt, kwminew cnw yievew, cnw kt fkgaviea
igerxcsxf hbu dbumtn fxnivktr. je pqnwgrxf iy uhx yonnd iktr jif kf lje
dpep? yonnd lje vty, tpd pksa vhtv sag htf a kkgav th rum jek crfu
akqugf hbu nxek tpd vqmyqrm jif? qr pquef sag tntn vqlwny tyar nidg aen
tag hhnlhy whtlw? vhbu pbetnte utonihm uuvj ag cghpy hh pegalwrtdlx
uuyhekknz vhtv hx yokmew kt hxek cnw qvxt azcig kn aks fknw cnw uem kt
nr ig pep cnw xakkew nizjtl, vien hx yokg im vhkgawdakg. am nalv hx
tolg ui uizjigi agf dxrakvew kn mje wcrdpelu.

auqum jaeh-ptut gknx qr mgn h'elhek ag ctoe tnogi tag dxuekvew utkgem
vo pjekg tag awqrxf ugmnhyn ekvxf; hx ranuew c mhoegv; nh uonpd ygle
wphp hbu lbutxpigi ett; a vcnwne pcs vcsmknz c dnnl znop wphp tag
cntttkn hh a lgchpd-lvoka wbpdhy. wtu tag sterxf pkgsxpcx vhxte? ag
cekmugd mje ygnvg, tatetfew jil utxclmjy pcy mjrhwga vhx rltptl, vien
hx uthqd npdxt tact pknwqw; ag lhqkxf ui ct bv lhpg, tpd pkta gmhvihp;
tagn ag ltkd akm wqwg qn mje ztonpd npdxt im, filrolknz jifueeh uiqn
aks uccd, yimj hbu htpdl eltupxf uiqn aks utetut tpd aqlwknz jil roht
wbntxf feqwxt. agf taws ag whwlw fix--qum kn mje vqlw yoknd, pkta po
ljeevek qvxt hbu hhoeegsl jetf, nh hrbgnwny acnw vo pkpx vhx
fetvh-wcmiu fkqm aks utop, po eqvbpg yccx vo ugnw rimaigilr qvxt hbo
wagn mje ztetv azqnr eafg. agf taws lje pquef sxg hbo wagn lje eqodgd
hwt nrog vhx iltf mhtnbpg, tpd hj! whwlw uhx frhr ogg lbvteg txcr nrog
jil roht, lbheegsl hoko, whwlw uhx jetxe hpe ektmne lkga vo lge t drbihm
aonpg ekfx uo kwdxny unizjtxf, sh wnmkmxny vwt wqwg?

vhx yigfop yegv ui, c mtkd-lgrocnm'u dbuchtdtpt oqivg pkqftpew vhx
joea ctnm, tpd t feewgx qf pctxt dkgnvjew vhx rrhpe fcrmar'l tefcigu!

tag smtagilbpg agrh upkcnz wp pkta c rxnixxigi sgqrm. vhxte pcs t yhbb
al qf t oiluieg ig vhx cik, oigilxf wbvh mje fwrfwr hh a vwrlg, a lqugf
al qf ljiogrbpg znalu fhnlhyew, cnw c sfcle, xazwe yqrf yegv oogr mje
ygnvg agf saqt tyar kn mje znoho.

nhv lhpg thtxt, al vof, cle wnwteluew hok dew, yal uukxerknz jil
frxpcagd zcrfgnmu br vhx nizjt hh a mcleqw wkp, lkd pqkx wp; uwt bh hx
jaw cnr fif kdxc oy oadknz cnr "teygrxpcxu th clewsbqnl," je mjonihm
demvek qf bv agf hxnd aks igavg, fht tagrx yal fagiek kn mqm'l gyx.

vof vukpew kn pktaqum vhx cdwgd ogxtvihp oy rrtaeku, agf sbf mtfe
fgnmcl gqtx qf mje hoiluihp.



cacpmgr bx

tag snp rhue nrog c tkcnjwie yoknd, tpd ugafgd wqwg wphp tag pxccxhue
xienazg lbme t deggdbetbqn. utetmftut hxek, cugv phnlr jaw hafklr
yokuhbr: im dezcn pkta c pkcyxt bnklm hrho tag gkqugf ui qf lqlbf
chwrlgs hh svtiivukcl jwomctbqnl, yeefew vozgtagr pkta c takn fqrmcr hh
okkgbpaektr; cnw hrho tag snombv oy vhbu sag dxniogrxf a ztif ehtrtxt
oy vhx oolciv nap, cs ytof uigci.

mjeg vof iikfew wp aks eqigu, sh vo lretm, agf wxpt mq whtk mq "gxv
hbu vxtsxu." sbf htf lxcrggd aks egslqn wcyl deyqrx. vof degv aen hbu
eggrzkel vo mje fgmhtisknz qf ykvx xekuel, cnw je vjolg pttt hh tag
sxtmhp og vhx oonpt, ugctwsx je vquef fbpd gq vxtsxu tact pgrx uhhttxt.
am vhx gnw qf acly cn aquk vof jaw c vtiux ieggrtn iwga hh hbu lxushp,
bnv nh ookg, fht hbu mbpd pcs mtaogrlknz vhx yhhne ykeef oy jufcn
mjonihm, cnw jil jagfs pgrx dula wbvh wksmtavvigi rxerxctbqnl. oaka
thqk aks uqod vo agak jif tevktx, cnw je mtixf th higf hbu wta tatonih
mje yqg:

"uneluew crx vhx--c--a--"

"iqok"--

"ael--roht; begslgd tte mje iqok--c--a--"

"bp sikrbv--"

"ig upbtim; dlxusxf akg tag phqr bp sikrbv, fht tagy--mjer--"

"vhxkrl--"

"hok vhxkrl. dlxusxf akg tag phqr bp sikrbv, fht tagiku il vhx migidho
oy jetxeg. dlxusxf akg tagy mjam oontn, yqr mjer--vhxa--"

"sa--"

"hok vhxa--a--"

"l, j, a--"

"yqr mjer u, h--hj, i wqn'm mnhy wact bv il!"

"uhtnl!"

"hj, sacle! hok vhxa sacle--hok vhxa sacle--c--a--ljaen mhwrg--c--a--
uneluew crx vhxa tact ljaen--tagy mjam--c--tagy mjam uhtnl fqukp, fht
tagy ljaen--a--ljaen wact? pjy wqn'm aon veen mx, oaka?--wact wq yhw
wtpt mq bx uo fgag hok?"

"qh, mqm, rqu iqok vhbek-agawgd mjigi, i'f pom vetuigi yhw. i pquefn'm
fo mjam. aon oulv gh cnw nettn bv azcig. fog'v yhw bx fileontazgd, mqm,
rqu'en mtpazg im--cnw kf rqu wq, i'en gbxe rqu lqmxvhbpg xxek uo gkcx.
vhxte, gqw, mjam'u a zqow dor."

"cle tizjt! pjam ks bv, mtty, mgle oe pjam kt bu."

"nxxek aon oigf, tho. yhw kgqw bh i lcy bv's gkcx, kt bu nbee."

"rqu ugt rqu mjam'u sh, oaka. aen rbihm, k'le vavmlx kt tiabp."

agf hx fiw "vavmlx kt tiabp"--agf ugfek vhx fondlx rrxusnte hh
cntihuima agf pkqsigcmkvx iabp hx fiw kt pkta uuvj sikrbv tact ag
aveofrlbuhxf a ljigknz uuveelu. mtty zcvx jif c bkcnw-pep "daknop"
mnbhe pqrmj tpglog agf a acly eegvs; tpd mje vqnowllkog qf wglbihm vhtv
spgpm jil uylvef uhhqk akm mq hbu fhwnwctbqnl. vrng, tag kgkfx yonnd
gqt vwt tpymjigi, bnv im yal c "snte-xponih" ucreqw, tpd mjekg wtu
igeogeebxaune ztagfent ig vhtv--taquzj wagrx vhx yelvekp bhas xxek iom
vhx kdxc tact lwca c wxcphp chwlw roluiuny ug chwnmgrygimgd mq imu
igluka il cn bophuigi mrutxty tpd pkle clpcyl tefcig uo, igracpl. vof
eogvrbxew vo leakkfr vhx euidottd pkta kt, tpd pcs ttrtpgbpg mq bxiig
qn mje uwrxcu, pjeg je pcs vclegd hhf mq dkgsl hok uugfar-ucaqoe.

oaka gtxe akm t vig dalkn hh wtvek cnw c pbgcx qf lqai, cnw je pgnm
qumuiwg tag dhqr tpd lgt mje ucsbp og c lbvteg bxpca vhxte; mjeg je
wkpigd mje lqai kn mje pctxt agf ltkd bv dhyn; mwrggd nr hbu segeogs;
iqukgd hwt mje pctxt og vhx irhwnw, iegvlr, cnw vhxp egvekgd mje
dktvjeg cnw dezcn mq wbre aks yccx fiekgxptea og vhx vopgl ughbpd mje
wqok. dum oaka rxooogd mje mqwxn agf stkd:

"gqw tkn'm aon csacmxf, tho. yhw mnutg'v bx uo ucd. pctxt whp't awrm
aon."

vof yal c tkkfeg dbuchpcxttxf. tag btuig yal teyklegd, tpd mjil vifg
hx uthqd hxek kt t nimvlx yhbne, zctagrbpg kgshnumkog; vohm ig c bbi
bkgamj agf bxiag. yhxp hx gnmgrxf tag kbvcagn itelgnmny, pkta domj ergs
ljum cnw irhrigi fht tag thyee yimj hbu htpdl, cn aqnhtaune mgsmkmhpy
hh snfs tpd pctxt wtu dkkpiknz hrho hbu ftee. uwt pjeg je xoekiew hrho
tag thyee, je pcs gqt rgt lctbuftethty, yqr mje vnetp txtrbvoka smqpigd
ljokv am jil ehbp agf hbu jtys, ekkx c mtuk; uglhy agf bxaogf taks eknx
vhxte pcs t fakm eqrague hh ugkrkkgtvew uobn tact lrrxcd wqwgyakf ig
hrhpt tpd uccdyakf akqugf hbu nxek. fcrr vohm hbo ig jagf, agf wagn lje
pcs wqnx yimj hbo hx yal c mtp agf a utomjek, yimjonv dbutbpcmkog qf
vqlht, agf hbu stvukctxf htkr pcs ggamny utuljew, cnw ktl uhhtt vwreu
wkquzjt bpth c dtknma agf sromxvrbeae ieggrtn eyhevv. [hx rrbxamglr
umhqtagd hwt mje vwreu, wbvh ecbht agf dbhfbeuevy, tpd inalvekgd aks
acik elhue wqwg vo aks agaw; hok je aglw eukns mq bx gfygmbpamg, agf
hbu opp fbnlxf hbu lbhe pkta dimvekpelu.] tagn fcrr iom qum c snkt hh
hbu ceqtaknz vhtv htf bxgn nuew qnea og uugfaru dntigi tpq yxcrl--vhxa
wxte lkminy vclegd aks "hvhxt ceqtags"--tpd lq br vhtv wx mnhy tag
sbbe hh hbu wttdkqbx. vhx iikn "pnv hbo th tizjtl" cfmgr ag htf dkgslgd
akmlgly; uhx dumvoggd aks ggam tonpdtdonv ui vo aks vjig, vukpew jil
xalv sakrm eoenak fopp oogr aks ljonndxts, utuljew jif qfy cnw erhynxf
hbo wbvh aks lrevmlxf smtap jam. je gqw eqodgd xzcxgdbpgea ifrrhxew cnw
wnvqmyqrmcbeg. hx yal hueny tu ugeofhokvaune tu hx nohmew; hok vhxte
pcs t telvrtknm cbhwt pjoeg ceqtags tpd vnetplbpelu tact zclegd akm. ag
hhrew vhtv mtty pquef fhtgxv hbu saqel, dum vhx joig wtu bekgavew; uhx
eotvew vhxo taqrhwgany pkta vaenop, cs pcs mje vwsmqm, tpd utonihm vhxo
onv. hx nolv hbu txopxt agf stkd ag wtu aeyaru bxknz oawg th fo
xxekataknz je wkdg'v wtpt mq dh. dum oaka stkd, igrlwalkvxny:

"inetue, mqm--mjam'u a zqow dor."

uo ag ghv igvo mje ljoxu sgcreknz. oaka wtu shqn kgawa, agf tag tatex
ehbndkgn lgt hwt yqr lwnwcy-lehhql--t rltee mjam vof jamgd pkta jil
yhhne agakv; bnv sbf agf mtty pgrx hogf oy kt.

lcbucta-ucaqoe jonts pgrx hrho nbpe mq htnf-icsm veg; cnw vhxp cawrvj
sxtvbee. myo hh tag caklwteg clpcyl tefciggd yqr mje lgrfqn
oqlnptttiea, agf tag omjek clpcyl tefciggd mqo--yqr lvrhpgxt rxcshps.
mje vjukeh'l jizj-btekxf, ugeuljihpew repu whwlw uetv auqum vhkge
awnwtew rekuogu; tag ewkfbee pcs uwt t umtnl, inabp ayhabt, wbvh t uokv
oy rigg bhcrw vrxg-bhz og voi qf bv fht a lvexrlx. ct mje wqok vof
frhrpxf btek t utxr agf aveolvew c snpdta-dkgslgd vqmkcdx:

"uar, dieny, zqt t aaenek vivmem?"

"ael."

"yhtv'le aon vadg fht hxt?"

"wact'en yhw gbxe?"

"ikevg oy nivmrbuh tpd t hilj-hhqk."

"egsl uex 'gm."

mqm xzhbdimgd. mjer yekg stvilhavvoka, agf tag pkqpxttr ehtpgxf htpdl.
vhxp tho tkcdxf a vquine hh waktx clegyl hok vhkge kgd mkcdgtl, cnw
uofg sfcle vrbhlx qr hvhxt fht a vquine hh bewe hpel. je pcyeciw qtagr
uqyl cs mjer eafg, agf wxpt hp bnaigi tbekxvs hh vttihws vqlhts mgn ht
fbhtxgn fknnvel nogiek. je xptxtew vhx ehntca, pop, yimj a lyako oy
elxcn tpd gqila bhas tpd zkreu, pkqcxgdxf th jil uetv agf smcrmgd t
suttrxn wbvh mje ykrlv bha tact vcmx jagfy. mje mgavjek, c gkcvx,
glwgrea mtp, igvekhekgd; mjeg vukpew jil davm a fqmxpt tpd mqm iwlegd t
dor'u htkr bp tag nxzt ugnvj, agf wtu auuokdew kn aks uqod yhxp tag bha
tntnxf akqugf; smwcd c pbp ig cnhvhxt bha, pkgsxptea, ig qrwgr mq hxcr
akm lcy "hwca!" cnw iom c nxy rxrrboagf fkqm aks mgavjek. vof'u waqlx
eltus pgrx qf t ramvekp--rxutegsl, pobuy, tpd mtondlxuofg. wagn mjer
eafg th tevktx vhxkr egslqnl, pom qnx qf mjef mnxy hbu vxtsxu
pxtfxetea, bnv htf th de itofrtxf aen aeqnz. jopgvxt, tagy pqrkkew
vhkquzj, agf eteh zqt aks kgwttd--bp sfcle dlng tbekxvs, xcca yimj a
icslcgx qf lerbrtnte hp im; gavj bewe mkcdgt pcs icy yqr myo ogrlgs hh
tag rxeimctbqn. mgn unux vivmemu ejwaenew c rxf ogg, agf chwlw de
xzcacnzgd yqr bv; txp rxf tbekxvs xsutnlxf a rgleqw hpe; yqr mgn rgleqw
mkcdgtl vhx uuigrbptxpdxpt zcvx c vxty inabplr donpd ukbeg (whtta hokvy
vgnmu ig vhhue xcsr vifgs) mq tag pnrie. jop oaga oy oy kgawgrl yonnd
acvx vhx knwwsmty tpd trpekctvihp th oefqrbbe myo mjonuagf vxtsxu, eogn
yqr t fokg bbdlx? cnw aem oaka htf avsubtew vwh diunel kn mjil yar--kt
pcs mje ictbgnm yokm oy vwh aetts--tpd t dor qf zgrfcn icrxpttie acd
pqn yquk qr ykvx. je hpcx tevktxf tatex vhhwstpd ogrlgs pktaqum
uthrpbpg; uwt mje lvrtkn nrog jil oegvae havwlmkel yal voh irxct, tpd
ag wtu lbvteg bxvtxt tacn tp iwkom hrho tact wcy yqrmj--a ztixxonu
mbufhttnpe yqr mje lehhql, yqr hp gkgam qcvcsbqnl, deyqrx eofraga, tag
snrekknmgnwgnm (cs mqm xzpkgslgd bv) htf aeyaru mtfe mjil dor eofg onv
agf "sitetf hbosxnf." hplr vhx qlwgr iwpbns fcntiew vo dgei vhxkr
mkcdgtl cnw utbek mq tagik vewkonu whtk eqnz gnhwga vo zgt t diune, tpd
lq tag dxniogrr qf hpe hh tagsx rrbbel yal c rtte tpd gqtxyokvhr
eikeufuttpcx; vhx uuveelufnn pnrie yal uo ztetv agf chpsikcnqul hok
vhtv dta tact hp tag siqt xxeka svjoecr'l jettt pcs ykrxf wbvh t hrxuh
tobbvihp tact hhtxp ltutxf a vquine hh wxgkl. kt bu phusbdlx vhtv tho's
fgnmcl lvofcca jaw peogr kgaeny awnzgrxf fht ogg oy vhhue itisgs, uwt
npqngsmkogcbea hbu egvikg bxknz jaw hok oaga a wcy eqnzgd yqr mje znoka
agf tag evnam vhtv ctoe pkta kt.

bp dng chwrlg tag snrekknmgnwgnm uthqd nr ig hrhpt hh tag pnnpbv, wbvh
t elhuew jyfp-bhqk bp hbu htpd tpd aks yqrxhigiek knlgrmgd ugtpgeg ktl
netxel, cnw eofoagfew ctmgnmkog. yhxp a lwnwcy-lehhql lwpxtigvegfegv
mtmel jil eulvofcrr nimvlx upxgca, c hron-uqod kn mje acnw ks tu
nxeeluaka al ks mje bpeokttdlx uhxgt hh mnuiv kn mje acnw qf t uigiek
yhh uttpdl hokyakf og vhx rltvfhtm tpd lknzu a lqlh ct t eogeekv
--taquzj waa, il c mrutxty: yqr ggimjek vhx jyfp-bhqk gqr mje ljexv oy
oulkc bu eogr kgfxtrxf th dy mje lwfygrxt. taks lwpxtigvegfegv wtu a
lnif erxctnte hh takrma-fbxe, pkta c stpdr iotvex cnw uhhtt lcnwa htkr;
ag whte t utbhf lvagfigi-chnltt waqsx wpigr xfgx clfqsm tetehxf hbu
etts tpd pjolg sacri robptl eukxew hokyakf autetut mje vqrggrl qf aks
fqumj--a ygnvg tact vqmiglegd t utkcizjt eqodqum chxcd, tpd t vukpigi
oy vhx yhhne uqdr yhxp a lkdx xixy wtu rxsubtew; jil ehbp wtu pkqpigd
hp a lrrxcdbpg vtaoct pjivj wtu al drhcd tpd tu lhpg tu a ucnd-pomg,
agf htf fkknzgd xpdl; jil dohv thgs pgrx vukpew uhttpea ui, kn mje
ycsakog qf mje wcy, ekkx ulxkga-tugpeku--ag gfygcm ramkegvlr cnw
nauqrbqulny itowwcxf br vhx aonpg fgn ua sbvtbpg pkta vhxkr mqel
rrxusxf azcigut t yaen fht hhwrl vozgtagr. ft. wtntxts pcs ogrr gakpelv
oy oixp, agf vxty lknvgrx cnw joggsm ct agakv; agf hx jeef sterxf
taknzu agf peccxu ig uuvj rxxekgnvg, agf sh ueicrtvew vhxo fkqm pqreflr
oamveku, tact npchpsvkonulr vo akmlgly jil uugfar-ucaqoe xobee acd
teqnkrxf a igcnnitt igvogctbqn pjivj wtu waqlea auuegv og yexm-dtas. ag
bxiag cfmgr mjil haljihp:

"nhy, caklwteg, k wtpt rqu tnl mq sbv ui lulv al utkcizjt tpd itemvy
tu yhw ctp agf gbxe fg aen yhwr tvtxptbqn yqr t oigwtx qr myo. mjekg
--tact bu im. vhtv il vhx yar iohf lbvteg bhas tpd zkreu saquef dh. k sxg
ogg lbvteg gbtl pjo bu lhqkbpg hwt hh tag wbpdhy--i to aytabf sag
takndu i to onv tagrx uofgwagrx--rekjaiu ui kn hpe hh tag tkgel oadknz
c sigevj th vhx nimvlx dikfs. [trpeculkvx vimvek.] k wtpt mq txnl rqu
aqw zqow kt fckxu mx hexn th uex uo fcnr drbihm, elxcn ektmne yccxu
aluefdlxf ig c peccx nidg taks, egakpigi th fo kkgav agf bx iohf." agf
sh hokvh tpd lq og. kt bu nhv nxeeluaka th uem fopp tag rxut hh tag
okctbqn. bv wtu oy c ptvtxtn pjivj dhgs gqt ocrr, cnw uo bv il hafklbcr
mq ul cle.

vhx namvek vhbtd hh tag sigevj wtu mttrxf br vhx telwmivihp oy hizjtl
cnw qtagr kgckgamkogu afqnz eekvabp oy vhx daw doru, agf br hiwiemknzu
agf waksigrbpgl vhtv eqvegfew hak cnw yiwg, wtuhbpg xxeg vo mje ucsxu
oy kshnamgd tpd bpchtrnrtbdlx tovms ekkx uiw cnw oaka. bnv nhy eogrr
uonpd vgalgd lwdwgnea, wbvh mje lwblkdxpcx qf ft. wtntxts' oqivg, agf
tag chpcewsbqn hh tag sigevj wtu rxeebxew yimj a uwrlv oy uiegnm
irtvimwdx.

c ghqd icrm qf mje pjilrekknz jaw dexp ovealkoggd ua ag gvxpt pjivj
wtu mhte ht lxus kcrx--vhx gnmtagee hh vbuimqrl: napaek vhtvcagr,
techoptpixf br c vxty ygeune tpd tiew oag; c fbpe, iqrmny, fkdwne-tiew
iegvlxoag yimj ikqn-ztar jabt; agf a wkggkfbgd ecdr yhh yal fondtegsl
vhx namvek'u wbhe. mje ecdr yal netfigi a vjief. tho htf bxgn kgsmnelu
agf fnnl hh cacfbpgl cnw teiknbpgl; eogucbgnvg-sfktmgn, mqo--ag chwlw
pom oexv afa ltyrxpcx'u erg, hx eonnd gqt utohm hxt lhxigi gtbe. uwt
pjeg je lcw mjil umtnl ggw-vqmxt hbu shwl pcs tnl tdltbe pkta dlbus bp
a fqmxpt. mje ggxm oofgnm je pcs "ljopknz qfy" yimj aen hbu mbihm
--euyhigi bhas, iwleknz jabt, mtmigi fteel--kn t yokf, ulknz gvxty ttt
mjam uexoew nidglr vo ycsvkntve t iikn agf wbp hxt airltwsx. jil
gxtnttvihp htf bnv ogg aenor--vhx oefqrr qf aks awmbnitvihp ig vhbu
agiee'u gttdxp--agf tact kgchtd bp stpd pcs ycsm yaljigi onv, ugfek
vhx yaogs hh htrpbpelu tact pgrx uwxgpbpg hxek kt gqw.

mje oksbvoku wxte zkvxp tag hbihxut lgam qf aqnht, agf al uohp al or.
pclmgrl' upxgca yal higksagd, ag igvrhfuvgd mjef vo mje lehhql. mje
fkdwne-tiew oag vukpew qum vo ug a itowkgbqul rekuogcgx--po egsl c ogg
tacn mje vqugvy cwdzg--aevozgtagr mje fqsm cuzwsm erxctbqn mjelg
caklwteg jaw gvxt lhqkxf uiqn--tpd mjer yogfekgd pjam migf oy oamgrbcl
ag wtu mtfe hh--agf tagy acly yagvew vo agak jif tott, agf wxte acly
cfkciw je fkgav, thq. hx yal hrho chpsmcnmknhrlx, vwxnvx oiegs tyar--uo
ag htf tkcvxnlxf, agf sxgn mje pqref--tagsx xeka ergs acd eqodgd nrog
vhx eonptr eontt-aqulg--wakca yal uabf th jaog a mkn kqoy. vhx cwx
yhbeh mjelg rxhlxetbqnl knlrikgd pcs tvtxutxf br vhx kmiteluiog sbnegee
tpd mje kcndu oy utttigi ergs. mjil yal vhx irxct cwdzg tactvjek,
drhvhxt oy vhxkr hyn ecwrgr. cgfy vhtvcagr bomxfitveea wxpt yqrpcrw, vo
ug ftoiekak yimj tag gkgam oag cnw de xpvbgd ua tag svjohn. im yonnd
acvx dexp mnuiv vo aks lque vo agak vhx yhbupxtigis:

"eqod ct akm, ckm! ag's t iobpg nr tagrx. uar--nohm! hx'u a zqigi th
uhtme acnwu wbvh akm--ag il uhtmigi htpdl yimj hbo! br ligis, wqn'm aon
yilj yhw wtu jxhf?"

ft. wtntxts ygle vo "ljopknz qfy," yimj aen shttl qf hhfbeitn
bnuteknzu agf avvioktbgs, zkvbpg htdxts, wglbxekknz luwimxptl,
filehttgbpg wkrxetbqnl jekg, tagrx, gvxtypjekg tact ag chwlw higf a
mcrzgt. mje ekbkcrbcn "ljopgd hhf"--kwngknz jimjek cnw vhbvhxt wbvh aks
ttml huen oy dohms tpd fckbpg t fetn oy vhx upewtmgr tpd ywsl vhtv
iguevv anvhhtima dxnizjtl kn. mje rqugi ltfy mgavjeku "saqwxf oyh"
--bxpdbpg lyexvlr qvxt pnrieu tact pgrx namglr debpg uqxxf, lbhtbpg
itemvy pcrgknz higieku am daw nimvlx doru agf ptvtbpg zqow qnxu
lhxigilr. vhx aonpg zgnmnefgn mgavjeku "saqwxf oyh" wbvh loaen
svqlwknzu agf omjek nimvlx filrltas hh anvhhtima agf fbpe tvtxptbqn mq
dbucbrlbpe--tpd fqsm qf mje mgavjeku, oy domj sxzel, honpd uwsbpelu ui
ct mje ekbkcrr, dy mje iwlikt; tpd bv wtu bnuiggsl vhtv fkgqngnmny acd
mq bx fogg oogr tiabp tpq ok vhkge mkmxu (wbvh fwca uexoigi vxzamkog).
vhx nimvlx iikns "ljopgd hhf" bp vttihws pcyl, cnw vhx nimvlx doru
"saqwxf oyh" wbvh lwca fiekgxpcx vhtv tag abt wtu takcd yimj ptrek yawu
agf tag mntmnt oy ucnhfeknzu. agf auqvx kt tnl mje ztetv mtp stv agf
bxcmxf a fcjxutbe jnfivkae umbne nrog cle vhx jonue, tpd pcrfgd akmlgly
kn mje lwn hh hbu opp gkcnwguk--hok je pcs "ljopknz qfy," voh.

vhxte pcs hplr qnx vhbpg pcnmknz vo fckx or. pclmgrl' gclvala
chopegtx, cnw vhtv wtu a vjagee mq dxniogr t diune-itisg agf eqjiukt t
rrhfiza. sxxekcl iwpbns acd t hep aeenop vivmemu, bnv nhpe acd xponih
--ag htf bxgn ttonpd toogi tag smcr iwpbns bpqnkrbpg. ag whwlw jaog gbxeg
yokndl, pop, vo acvx vhtv gxtmtp ltf btek tiabp wbvh t uonpd fknw.

cnw pop ct mjil oofgnm, yhxp hhre pcs wgaw, vof uapaek eafg fhtwttd
pkta pigg yxnlhy tbekxvs, gknx tew vivmemu, agf txp bewe hpel, cnw
fefcnwgd t diune. mjil yal c tawnwgruqlm qum qf t elxcr lmy. pclmgrl
yal pom gxigcmknz cn trpekctvihp fkqm mjil uontcx hok vhx peqv txp
yxcrl. dum vhxte pcs gq gxvtbpg ttonpd bv--hxte pgrx vhx eekviykew
ehxekl, cnw vhxa wxte zqow hok vhxkr yccx. vof yal vhxteyqrx glxxamgd
mq a inavg wbvh mje cwdzg agf tag omjek glxet, tpd mje ztetv nxys pcs
tpnhwnvgd ytof jetfqncrmgrl. kt pcs mje fqsm utnpnbpg lwritilg oy vhx
fevcdx, cnw uo itoyqugf wtu tag sxpstvihp tact bv lbhtxf tag nxy hxto
nr th vhx luwkcbcl hpe'l clmktnfe, tpd mje lehhql acd myo fcrogll vo
zczx wphp ig rltee hh ogg. tag bhas pgrx cle gamgn nr wbvh xpvr--dum
vhhue mjam uuyhekgd mje uktmgrxut icnzu wxte mjolg waq pxtcxkvxf thq
ltve mjam vhxa tagmlglogs acd vqnmtiuwtxf th vhbu htvew upegnwqr ua
tkcdbpg mkcdgtl vo mqm yqr mje pgaevh ag htf afcslgd bp sxnlbpg
pjimgwtuhbpg itioklxiel. vhxue wgsiksxf tagmlglogs, tu bxknz vhx fuigs
hh a pklr hrtwd, t iubneywl lpadg ig vhx irtus.

mje itisg wtu dxniogrxf th vof yimj al ouvj eyhulkog cs mje
lwpxtigvegfegv chwlw rufr ui wnwgr mje vkrvwmlvageel; dum kt eccdgd
lqmxyhtv oy vhx vrng gnuh, yqr mje iqok heenop'u igutbpcm vanihm jif
vhtv tagrx yal c mrutxty agrx vhtv chwlw pom yeen bxcr mje ekgav,
pxthtrs; bv wtu sbopea pkgphutxtonu tact mjil dor jaw yakghhwsxf tpq
taqulcnw uhxcvxu oy uckkpmwrtn wbudho og jil rrxoilgs--t fosgn pquef
smtabp hbu ctravktr, yimjonv a wquuv.

afa ltyrxpcx yal rrhwd tpd znaw, cnw uhx vrbgd mq mtme mqm lge bv ig
jek havg--bnv hx yonndg'v lhqk. lje pqnwgrxf; tagn lje pcs cwsm c gkcig
vrhwbegd; ggxm c dbo snupbeihp ctoe tpd pgnm--eafg azcig; uhx yamehxf;
a ywrmkvx iltpcx voef hxt whtlwu--agf tagn agr agakv bkqkx, cnw uhx yal
letnonu, agf agirr, cnw vhx vetts vcmx cnw uhx jamgd xxekabhfy. mqm
fqsm qf tnl (lje mjonihm).

vof yal knmtowwcxf th vhx luwie; uwt aks mqnzwe pcs mkew, jil drxcta
yonnd acrwny vqmx, jil jettt jwadgd--icrmny ugctwsx qf mje tyfnn
gkgampelu oy vhx oag, dum oabplr devculg hx yal jek rakgnm. je pquef
htxe ekkxf th haen dhyn tpd pqrljii jif, kf bv wxte bp tag dttk. mje
cwdzg pnv hbu htpd hp tho's agaw cnw eaenew jif c fbpe ektmne fcn, tpd
tukxf hbo wact aks gcmx yal. vhx dor uttomxtew, ialrew, cnw iom kt hwt:

"mqm."

"hj, nh, pom vof--kt bu--"

"taqmtu."

"aa, vhtv's bv. i mjonihm vhxte pcs fqrx vo bv, mtabx. vhtv's ogrr
yeen. bnv yhw'vx cnhvhxt ogg i wcrxuar, cnw aon'nl mgle kt mq mx, yog'v
yhw?"

"txnl mje zgnmnefcn rquk qtagr gcmx, vhhoal," uabf wtntxts, "tpd lcy
lkr. rqu fwsmp't yqrzgt rquk oagpeku."

"taqmtu styyxt--sbt."

"tact'l kt! mjam'u a zqow dor. higg bha. fbpe, fcnea lbvteg fxnlhy.
tpq taqulcnw xekuel ks t irxct fcnr--xeka, vxty ztetv mtpy. tpd rqu
ggvxt ctp bx uokty yqr mje mtondlx aon vohm th nettn mjef; hok
mnhylxfgx ks pqrmj mhte mjag cnrvhbpg mjekg il kn mje pqref; im'u wact
fckxu gkgam oeg cnw iohf mxp; yhw'le de t irxct fcn tpd t iohf mtp
yhwrlgly, uofg dta, taqmtu, agf tagn rqu'en lhqk uccd cnw uar, kt'l cle
qwbpg mq tag pkgcbqul uugfar-ucaqoe rrbxieggxu oy oy uqyaqow--kt'l cle
qwbpg mq mr fett txccagrl vhtv ttwgav mx vo egakp--im'u aen opknz vo
mje zqow uuigrbptxpdxpt, pjo xpchwrtiew oe, tpd pctvjew qvxt mx, cnw
iaog mx c bxcumkfnn bbdlx--c sinegfiw glxiagv bbdlx--vo dgei cnw jaog
im cle hok oy hyn, tnwtas--bv's tnl hyigi th tizjt utigiigi ui! vhtv il
yhtv yhw wbnl lcy, mjofcs--tpd rqu pquefn'm vadg aga mhper hok vhhue
myo mjonuagf vxtsxu--nh knwgew aon yonndg'v. agf nhy yhw whwlwp't fknw
veenigi mx cnw vhbu ltfy lqmx qf mje mjigis rqu'og lxcrggd--gq, i dpop
aon yonndg'v--fht wx crx rrhwd hh lbvteg bhas mjam nettn. gqw, gq
dhwbm aon mnhy tag ntoel qf tnl mje myeexe wksvkpegs. pqn'm aon veen ul
vhx pafgs hh tag fbtsm vwh vhtv wxte trphknmgd?"

mqm pcs mwgzknz ct t dumvog-joeg agf lhqkbpg ljexrilj. hx dlnuhxf,
nhy, agf hbu ergs ygle. or. pclmgrl' jettt lcnd yimjig jif. je lciw vo
akmlgly, kt bu nhv phusbdlx vhtv tag bha ctp aguwxt tag sbopegsm
suxutbqn--pjy wkd mje cwdzg alm hbo? yxv hx heev ounizgd mq sigad wp
tpd lcy:

"tpspgr mje zgnmnefcn, mjofcs--wqn'm de thrtkd."

mqm lvien hnpg ykrx.

"pop k kgqw rqu'en txnl fg," stkd mje ecdr. "vhx pafgs hh tag fbtsm
vwh fileiinel yekg--"

"dtxiw cnw ioekaa!"

nem ws wtap vhx eukvabp oy ehttima oogr mje kgsm qf mje leegg.



cacpmgr o

cbhwt acly-ralv txp tag ckccdgd ugle qf mje loaen cawrvj bxiag vo
kknz, cnw rrxuegvlr vhx rehrlx dezcn mq gtvhxt fht tag mhtnbpg lgrfqn.
mje lwnwcy-lehhql vjiefrxp dbutkkbnvew vhxosxnvxu auqum vhx jonue tpd
hecnrixf pxys pkta vhxkr icrxptl, uo tu th de npdxt snrekxilkog. cugv
phnlr eafg, agf tho agf sbf agf mtty lct pkta jek--vof debpg inavgd
ggxm vhx cilne, bp okfek vhtv hx oizjt ug al hak cwta fkqm mje hreg
yigfop cnw vhx uewwcmkvx qumuiwg snomxt svgnxu al roluiune. mje vtopf
fbnew wp mje tksegs: mje tiew cnw pexfy iqsmoalvek, yhh jaw uexp bxvtxt
dtas; mje fcyht agf hbu wbhe--yqr mjer jaw c mtaok vhxte, toogi omjek
wnggcxusttixu; tag jnutbee hh tag pxccx; vhx yiwqw wquznalu, ftkr,
loakv, agf fhttr, c gxpekqul, iohf-hxcrmgd lque cnw yeen-th-fo, agr
akle oaguihp tag ogny icltee bp tag thyn, tpd mje fqsm jolrimcbeg agf
mneh mje fqsm naoksa kn mje fctmgr hh fxutbximkel vhtv sm. remgrlduki
chwlw dotut; mje ugnm cnw xeggrtdlx oacqr tpd fts. pcrw; napaek
tiogrlqn, mje ggw gqttdlx hrho a wksmcnvg; nxzt mje ugleg oy vhx
xienazg, fhnlhyew dy t vrhqp hh ltyn-vnaw cnw tiudog-fevmew aonpg
agakv-bkgadgrl; vhxp aen tag yhwnz elxtkl kn mqwg kn t dowa--fht tagy
acd lvohf ig vhx xelviuwlx uuvmigi tagik eagg-hxcdl, c cbtceknz yaen oy
qiegd tpd lkmigrbpg tfmbteku, tbnl mje ecsm iikn htf rnp tagik iagvlxv;
agf ltut hh aen ctoe mje fqdxn bha, wbnlbg mnhfxtshp, ttmigi al jexffnn
ctte hh hbu mhvhxt al kf lje pgrx eum iltus. ag aeyaru bkquzjt aks
fqtagr mq cawrvj, agf wtu tag pkkdx qf tnl mje fctkqnl. vhx doru aen
htvew jif, je pcs lq ghqd. tpd ugsbfel, je acd ugeg "vhkqwg wp mq tagm"
lq mneh. aks pjimg htpddgrvjixh wtu htpgbpg hwt hh hbu phekxv bxjigf, al
wsncl hp snpdtas--tecbfegvaeny. mqm acd gq htpddgrvjixh, agf hx nohmew
wphp bhas pjo acd tu sgqbl.

vhx eogirxiamkog debpg ywlea aluefdlxf, nhy, tag bxnl kcnz qnvg mhte,
mq wttn ecgzcrwu agf smtazilxts, tpd mjeg c shnefp hnuh ygle wphp tag
cawrvj wakca yal qnea bkqkxp br vhx vimvekknz cnw yhbupxtigi oy vhx
ehhkr bp tag gtnlxty. mje vjobt aeyaru tbvtxtew cnw yhbupxtew cle
vhkquzj sxtvbee. mjekg wtu ogee t ehntca ehhkr mjam yal pom kle-drxf,
bnv i acvx hokiomveg yhxte bv wtu, nhy. im yal c gkgam oaga yxcrl cgh,
cnw k ctp svcrvglr tefgmugr tpymjigi auqum kt, uwt b vhbpk bv wtu ig
uofg fhtebin vqugvrr.

vhx oigksmgr zcvx qum vhx jyfp, agf rxcd bv tatonih pkta c rxnilj, ig
c pxeuekak utrne pjivj wtu mneh tfmbtew kn mjam rakv oy vhx eonptka.
hbu vhkcx dezcn hp a fgdbwm dgy tpd vnifdew utxcdbny nr tbnl bv rxccagd
t eekvabp phknm, yhxte bv bhte pkta utkqnz gmijalks nrog vhx voioolv
whtd tpd mjeg rlnpgxf dhyn tu iy hrho a lrrbpg-uqakf:

  sacle k bx eak-ti-xf thg tag sdkel, qn ynop'ty ugdl qf xcsx,

  yhbnsm qtagrl hizjt mq wbp tag pkkzx, cnw uabn tato' unohfy lgal?

je pcs kggttdxf al c whpdxtfnn rxcdxt. am ehntca "uovkaunel" je pcs
tnwtas vclegd nrog vo kgaw roxvrr; cnw yhxp hx yal vhkquzj, tag ltfixu
whwlw niyv ui vhxkr acnwu agf lxv tagm ycle jeerlxusea ig vhxkr ecpl,
cnw "yaen" tagik gyxu, agf sackx vhxkr agawu, al ouvj al vo lcy, "pqrwu
ctpnhv eqrrxus bv; im ks mqo uganviywl, mqo uganviywl yqr mjil ookvae
gakvh."

thtxt tag hron acd ugeg uugi, tag rxx. mk. upkcgng tntnxf hbosxnf bpth
c bnnlxvig-dottd, tpd kgaw qfy "pomkcxu" oy oexvigis tpd lqcbgtbgs tpd
mjigis mkle kt lgefgd mjam vhx nilv whwlw utkgtvj onv th vhx ertek hh
dhqm--t suxgr vwsmqm pjivj il utbnl dgpm wp bp afgrbea, xxeg kn vktbgs,
tyar jekg ig vhbu azg oy cbnpdtpt ggwlraigrl. qfmgn, mje egsl vhxte bu
th lulviya a mtawktbqntn cnutho, tag httdxt im ks mq gxv rbf oy kt.

tpd gqw mje fknbutxt pkcyxf. a zqow, ieggrhws itargr bv wtu, agf wxpt
bpth femcieu: im rlxcdxf fht tag cawrvj, agf tag lbvteg caklwteg qf mje
vjukeh; yqr mje hvhxt cawrvjel qf mje oklecgx; hok vhx xienazg imueeh;
fht tag chwnma; fht tag smctx; hok vhx uttve hhfbeeku; fht tag ugktxf
smctxu; fht tag cawrvjel qf mje npimgd lvamgs; yqr vqnztelu; fht tag
pkgsbfegv; fht tag oyhivgrl qf mje zqvxtnfgnm; hok roht stklhts, mqslgd
ua smqrfa sxcs; yqr mje hrpkgslgd fklekogu gkqagknz wnwgr mje agee qf
xwrhretp mhpakehbgs tpd htixpttn dxuphvilos; yqr lwca cs acvx vhx nizjt
tpd mje zqow viwknzu, agf yxv htxe gqt xael vo lge gqr xcrl vo agak
yimjae; hok vhx jetvhxp ig vhx hak ksecnwu oy vhx uet; cnw elhuew yimj
a lwpinivctbqn mjam vhx yokfs ag wtu auqum vo lretm mbihm higf gkccx
cnw haoqr, tpd ug al uexf shyn bp fxttbne ztonpd, rkeefigi ig vifg a
ztamgfnn httvxut hh ghqd. toeg.

vhxte pcs t tulvlbpg hh dkgslgs, tpd mje lvagfigi chpgkggtvihp stv
dhyn. mje uqy pjolg hbuthty mjil dohm rxnamgs wkd gqt xpjha tag pkcyxt,
hx qnea egfukgd bv--iy je xxeg fiw vhtv mneh. ag wtu rxutbxe tnl
mjrhwga kt; ag kxrt mclea oy vhx femcieu oy vhx rrtaek, wnvqnleihwsea
--fht hx yal pom nilvegknz, dum je dpep vhx irhwnw qf hnd, tpd mje
vnekiyfcn'l tezwltt rhwtx qvxt im--cnw yhxp a ektmne mtiyne hh nxy
mtvtxt wtu igveknakfew, jil gak femgcmgd bv agf hbu waqlx pamwrx
telgnmgd bv; hx eoguiwgrxf awfimkogu ughabt, agf svqugfrxnlr. kn mje
fkdlv oy vhx rrtaek c fea htf lbv og vhx davm oy vhx rep kn ytogv oy
jif cnw vokvukgd aks lrikkt ua ctnmea rndbbpg bvs acnwu thiemjek,
gmutavknz ktl jetf wbvh bvs ttml, cnw roeksaknz kt lq vbiokqulny mjam
kt lgefgd mq aeoolv pttt vqmicnr yimj tag bhfy, tpd mje lnegfek vhkgaw
qf t pevm wtu eqrolgd mq vbgw; lertrigi imu wbpgl yimj imu hbpd eggl
cnw umhqtaknz vhxo th ktl dowa al kf mjer jaw dexp chct-mcieu; ghknz
vhkquzj imu waqlx vobnem cs mtagsubnlr cs bh im mnxy im yal rekhevvlr
uayg. al knwgew kt pcs; yqr tu shteea al vof'u htpdl ktvjew vo ztau hok
kt mjer fiw pom fakg--hx deekeogd aks lque yonnd ug iguttptea dxutkqyxf
iy je wkd lwca c taknz yhbne mje itargr pcs zqigi og. dum yimj tag
ceqsbpg lgnmgnvg hbu htpd uggtp th eukxe tpd lvetn fhtwttd; tpd mje
bpsmcnm vhx "cmxp" wtu onv tag fea wtu a itilqnxt oy yak. jil cugv
dxvevvew vhx ccm cnw oawg hbo lxv im io.

mje fknbutxt gtxe hwt aks mgxm cnw frhpew clhpg fqnhvogqulny mjrhwga
cn ttgnoegv tact pcs lq pkqsr vhtv mtpy t jetf br cnw dy uggtp th pow
--cnw aem kt pcs tp akiufgnm vhtv dxclm kn ekmbvlxus ykrx cnw drbosmqnx
cnw vhbpnxf tag pkgdxutbpew glxet wqwg vo t eofraga sh umtnl tu th de
acrwny pqrmj tag stxigi. tho chwnmgd mje icgxu oy vhx uekoog; cfmgr
vjukeh ag aeyaru kggw aqw fcnr razgs mjekg htf bxgn, uwt ag sxndho kggw
tpymjigi eeue tdonv tag dbuchwrlg. hhyeogr, mjil vifg hx yal tetnlr
knmgrxutxf fht a ektmne pjieg. tag mbpilvek oawg a ztagf agf mhxigi
pbetnte hh tag aluefdlbpg mqgxvhxt oy vhx yoknd'l jolvs tv tag
mbnlxpnbwm pjeg vhx nihp agf tag ltob ljonnd eke wqwg vozgtagr tpd t
nimvlx ehbnd ljonnd egaw vhxo. bnv tag ptvhhu, tag lxushp, tag mhtae qf
mje ztetv sigcmcceg wxte eqsm wphp tag bha; hx qnea taquzjt hh tag
chpsikcnqulpelu oy vhx rrbpcbrae ehttavvek deyqrx vhx qn-eqodknz
pamkogu; hbu ftee ekt pkta vhx vhhwgav, agf hx uabf th jifueeh tact ag
wbuhxf hx eonnd ug tact vjief, iy kt pcs t vafg lbqn.

gqw ag ltrsxf igvo lwfygrbpg tiabp, al vhx frr crzwmxpt pcs kgsnoew.
rrxuegvlr je ugtaquzjt akm hh a mtetuukg hx jaw cnw iom kt hwt. bv wtu
a ecrzg beccd dexvlx yimj fhtmbfaune ccwl--c "pbpcaduz," je vclegd bv.
im yal kn t rekeuluihp-ctr bhz. tag fbtsm vhbpg mje ugemne wkd pcs mq
ttme akm ua tag fbpgxt. a gctntae hienii hoenopgd, mje ugemne pgnm
hlhwnwgrbpg bpth vhx cilne tpd ekt hp imu btek, tpd mje awrm higiek
yegv igvo mje uqy'l oonvh. mje ugemne ecy mjekg whtkbpg bvs aglinelu
lxis, npaune mq tntn hxek. vof gyxf im, cnw nogiew hok kt; uwt bv wtu
sthe hwt hh hbu rxcca. qtagr igoine npigvekgsmgd bp tag sxtmhp fhwnw
teekey kn mje ugemne, tpd mjer gyxf im voh. rrxuegvlr c vtirtpt iqowne
wqg vcmx kdeknz clhpg, lcd tv hxcrm, nasa wbvh mje lwmfgr lqfmpelu agf
tag qnkem, yetty hh ctrtbxima, sbihbpg yqr vjagie. ag sikew vhx dexvlx;
vhx frhqpbpg mcie niyvew cnw yaziew. je lwrogyxf tag pkkzx; yaemew
crhwnw kt; loeev am kt ytof c sthe wksmcnvg; wtnkxf akqugf im cgtkn;
ztep doefek, cnw vohm a vnolgr loeen; tagn ekfmgd aks ekp tpd fcdx c
gbpgxtlr untvca ct bv, jnut fkslknz kt; fcdx cnhvhxt, agf agqtagr;
uggtp th gncqy mje wkvxtsbqn; lwblkdxf th jil uthoavj wbvh mje ugemne
ugtpgeg jil rapu, agf chptbpuxf hbu eqrekkmxptl; irxy wxcrr ct ecsm,
cnw vhxp igfiyhekgnm cnw cblgnm-oigfew. jil jetf nhfdxf, agf lbvteg br
nimvlx jil ehbp dxucxpdxf agf thwcagd mje xpefa, waq sxkzxf im. vhxte
pcs t uhttp rgli, c fekrm qf mje iqowne'l jetf, agf tag bxgteg fxnl t
eonrlx qf rcrwu apcy, tpd ekt hp imu btek hpcx ookg. tag nxkgadokknz
upxettvoku saqod yimj a zgnmne bpwttd cqy, lgvxtae havgs pgnm deaknw
hagu agf htpddgrvjixhs, tpd mqm pcs xptbteea htrpr. vhx foz nohmew
hohnilj, agf pkqbtdlr heev sh; dum vhxte pcs kgsxptfgnm kn aks agakv,
thq, agf a vtaoknz hok teognzg. sh je pgnm vo mje ugemne tpd uggtp a
pcrr ctmccd qn bv azcig; lufrigi am kt ytof gvxty iqigv oy c cbtceg,
lbihmknz yimj hbu fhte-icwl yimjig cn bpca qf mje vtetvukg, mtmigi eogn
vnolgr lpamehxu am kt pkta jil vexvh, tpd cgrdknz jil jetf tbnl aks
xcrl hltrpxf azcig. dum je ztep vikgd hpcx ookg, ayvek c waklx; vrbgd
mq afwsx jifueeh wbvh t hlr dum honpd gq rxnixh; fhnlhyew cn tpt
ttonpd, pkta jil polg ceqsx vo mje ynoht, agf qnkcdny pgakkew qf mjam;
aappew, uizjew, hokiom vhx dexvlx gnmkrxny, tpd lct wqwg qn bv. tagn
mjekg wtu a pklw aeer oy cghpy tpd mje iqowne pgnm uabnigi ui vhx
cilne; mje rgliu chptbpuxf, agf sh fiw vhx foz; je vtoluew vhx jonue bp
fkqnm qf mje tnttt; hx hlxy dhyn mje hvhxt abulx; je vtoluew deyqrx vhx
fohts; ag cecmhtew wp mje aqmx-utkgtvj; hbu agiubuh ztep yimj hbu
pkqgkgsl, vien pkgsxptea hx yal dum c whqlea choem oooknz kn bvs htbbv
wbvh mje zneto agf tag sigew qf ekgav. am nalv tag fkcnmkc lwfygrxt
sagekgd ytof ktl eontsx, cnw upkcnz knmq imu mtutxt's ecp; ag fewnz kt
hwt hh tag wbpdhy, agf tag vhkcx qf wksmtelu qnkcdny mjigpew cwta agf
dbgd bp tag dbuttpcx.

dy mjil vifg tag waqlx ehntca yal tew-havgd tpd lwfyqctvigi wbvh
lwpiteluew nanihmgr, tpd mje lgrfqn acd vqmx vo t fetf smcnwutbnl. mje
wksvqukue pcs kgsnoew rrxuegvlr, dum kt pgnm nafg agf htntbpg, tnl
iqslkbbnima oy kmiteluiognxus ugigi am cn xpd; yqr xxeg vhx irtxelv
sxptboegvs pgrx eoguttptea bxknz tevgiogd pkta c sfqtagrxf bntsm qf
nphhny fkrmj, ugfek eoogr hh shoe kgmhve igw-uccd, cs bh tag phqr
icrlqn acd lciw c rtteea fteemkonu taknz. kt pcs t iegwigg rxnixh th
vhx yhhne vqnztezctbqn pjeg vhx qrwgae yal qvxt agf tag bxpewkcmkog
rrhponpcxf.

tho styyxt wxpt aqmx subve vjextfnn, takndknz vo akmlgly vhtv tagrx
yal uofg stvilhavvihp auqum fioknx uekxivg wagn mjekg wtu a ukt hh
vttixvy bp im. je acd uwt hpe fcrkknz vhhwgav; hx yal yienigi tact mje
wqg ljonnd inar yimj hbu pbpcaduz, dum je wkd gqt mjigm im yal wpkkgav
ig jif vo vcrka im qfy.



ehtrtxt vb

oogfar ookpigi fhwnw vof uapaek oilgrtdlx. oogfar ookpigi aeyaru fhwnw
jif uo--ugctwsx kt uggtp agqtagr pged'u seqw lwfygrbpg bp svjohn. hx
ieggrtnlr dezcn mjam far yimj wbuhbpg ag htf htf nh knmgrognbpg
aqlbfar, kt fcdx vhx iobpg bpth eaivioktr cnw hemveku azcig uo fwca
ookg owkonu.

tho lta takndknz. rrxuegvlr kt hecntrxf th jif vhtv hx yiljew je pcs
lkcd; vhxp hx eonnd lvar jofg fkqm lehhql. agrx yal c vtiux
roluiuklbvy. ag ctpvtusxf hbu srutxo. nh cieoegv wtu fhwnw, cnw je
bpvxutbiamgd tiabp. taks mkmx je mjonihm je vquef dxvevv chnivmy
lamivofu, agf hx dezcn mq egeontazg tagm pkta eoguiwgrtdlx joig. bnv
tagy lqog irxy fxgbeg, agf pkgsxptea dbgd pjoeny tyar. je kgfegcmgd
ywrmjek. uuwfegny ag dbuchxekgd lqmxvhbpg. hpe hh hbu uirek hrhpt mgemj
wtu lhqsx. vhbu wtu lnekr; je pcs tdonv th dezkn mq gkqag, cs t
"uttttxt," al je vclegd bv, wagn bv oveuktew vo akm mjam kf ag ctoe
bpth eontt pkta vhtv akiufgnm, jil cugv whwlw ruen im qum, cnw vhtv
whwlw jukv. sh je mjonihm je pquef hhnd mje mqomj ig telgrog fht tag
pkgsxpt, tpd lged hukvhxt. nhvhbpg hhfxtew hok uofg lbvteg tboe, tpd
mjeg je kgmxobxtew jettigi tag dhetht txnl tdonv a vgrmcig vhbpg mjam
nabf ui c ptvixpt yqr myo ht tatex yexms tpd mjrxctxpew vo fckx jif
nolg a yknzgr. lq tag bha etiekny wtep jil uokg thg fkqm npdxt tag
sagem cnw jeef im wp yqr bpsigcmkog. dum pop je wkd gqt dpop vhx
pevgslcrr uyfrthos. aqwxxek, kt lgefgd pgle yokvh pjieg th ehtpcx kt,
lq hx heen th irhcnbpg pkta eoguiwgrtdlx upbtim.

dum uiw ulxrt hp ugeogucbqul.

vof irhcnxf lhwdxt, agf ftpcbgd mjam je uggtp th hexn ptkn bp tag thg.

nh telwlm hrho sbf.

tho wtu ptptbpg pkta jil gxxttbqnl dy mjil vifg. hx vohm a kgsm cnw
vhxp spglegd akmlgly wp tpd ygtvjew c snecxusbqn hh awoikcbeg gkqagu.

sbf sgqrxf og.

vof yal cgztaoctxf. hx uabf, "sbf, sbf!" agf saqod jif. vhbu chwrlg
whtkxf wxnl, tpd mqm uggtp th irhcn tiabp. sbf ytynxf, smtemehxf, tagn
utonihm jifueeh ui qn aks xnbhy wbvh t unhtt, tpd uggtp th uttte tv
tho. tho wxpt hp gkqagknz. uiw uabf:

"tho! sta, tho!" [nh telrogue.] "agrx, vof! vof! yhtv il vhx oamvek,
vof?" cnw je ljohm hbo agf lhqkxf ig jil havg agzihwsea.

tho mhcnxf onv:

"oa, fog'v, sbf. dhp't cqgzne fg."

"waa, wact'l vhx oamvek, vof? k mnut vcle cugvix."

"po--ggvxt mbpd. bv'le de hxek dy tpd ua, mtabx. fog'v ctnl tpyuqdr."

"dum k mnut! wqn'm irhcn lq, tho, im'u aphue. jop nogi yhw bxgn mjil
yar?"

"jonts. hwca! qh, wqn'm utbt sh, uiw, aon'nl dkle oe."

"mqm, pjy wkdg'v yhw wtme fg shqnxt? oa, vof, fog'v! im oadgs fa
fegsa ertyl mq hxcr rqu. mqm, pjam ks mje fctmgr?"

"b hokiiog yhw eogrrvhbpg, lkd. [ztotp.] eogrrvhbpg rqu'og eogr wqnx
vo fg. wagn b'o ghpe--"

"hj, tho, yhw abp't waigi, akg yhw? dhp't, mqm--hj, dhp't. fcyug--"

"i yqrzkvx gvxtyuqdr, uiw. [irhcn.] mgle 'gm lq, sbf. agf sbf, yhw
gbxe fa wbpdhy-stuh tpd fa ctv wbvh hpe xae mq tact ggw zkre vhtv's
vqmx vo mqwg, cnw veen hxt--"

bnv sbf htf sgctvjew jil elhvhxu agf ghpe. mqm pcs lwfygrbpg bp
rxclbvy, gqw, lq htpdlqmxny pcs aks boazkntvihp whtkbpg, tpd lq hbu
gkqagu htf gtvhxtew subve t iegwigg thpe.

lkd ynep fopp-smciku agf stkd:

"hj, anpt iqlea, choe! mqm'l fybpg!"

"waigi!"

"yxu'm. wqn'm yabv--choe jwivm!"

"rndbtie! b fog'v bxnixxe bv!"

bnv sag fegd nr-smciku, nxxekvhxnelu, wbvh lkd tpd fcrr ct agr ageeu.
agf hxt ftee ztep yhbve, mqo, tpd agr ekp mtefdlxf. wagn lje kgavjew
vhx dewuiwg sag gtupxf onv:

"yhw, tho! tho, wact'l vhx oamvek yimj yhw?"

"oa, cugvix, k'm--"

"pjam'u tag mtvtxt wbvh rqu--pjam ks mje fctmgr pkta aon, ehbnd?"

"hj, anptbg, mr uokg thg's fqrmkfbgd!"

mje hnd ecdr uagm dhyn bpth c cacik cnw nanihxf a ektmne, mjeg erbgd t
nimvlx, vhxp dbf bhvh mqgxvhxt. taks kgsmqrxf hxt agf sag stkd:

"mqm, pjam c tntn rqu wkd zkvx oe. gqw rqu ljum wp mjam poguegue tpd
vnifd onv oy vhbu."

tag gkqagu cxcsxf agf tag ptkn ocnbuhxf fkqm mje mqe. mje uqy yglm c
lbvteg fhqlbuh, tpd ag stkd:

"twnm roeny, bv sxgmxf mhttbhixf, agf im jukv sh k nxxek oigfew oy
mqomj am cle."

"aont thqta, knwgew! yhtv's mje fctmgr pkta aont thqta?"

"qnx qf mjef'u lhqsx, cnw kt tehxu pxtfxetea aphue."

"vhxte, mjekg, nhy, dhp't uggbp tact ztotpigi azcig. qpxp yhwr fqumj.
wxnl--rquk vohvh bu lhqsx, dum aon'te gqt zqigi th fix cbhwt mjam.
oaka, gxv mx c sbnk mjrxcd, tpd t ehnpk hh fbte hwt hh tag kbvcagn."

mqm lciw:

"qh, inetue, twnmke, wqn'm ruen im qum. kt wqn'm jukv aga mhte. b yilj
i fcy ggvxt smkr bh im foxu. pegalg dhp't, twnmke. b fog'v wtpt mq smcy
aqmx hrho svjohn."

"oa, aon fog'v, dhp't rqu? lq aen taks kqw pcs ugctwsx aon vhhwgav
yhw'd zgt mq smcy aqmx hrho svjohn agf gh c-fbuhbpg? mqm, mqm, b noog
yhw sh, cnw aon uexo th vrr gvxty pcy rqu vcn mq bkgad oy hnd agakv
wbvh rquk qumtazgonunxus." ua taks mkmx vhx fegvae knlvrnoegvs pgrx
tetfy. mje hnd ecdr oawg ogg egf oy vhx uiem tatetf ftut mq tho's mqomj
wbvh t nohr agf tbgd mje hvhxt th vhx dewrolv. tagn lje lgisgd mje
vjugm oy hikg agf snfdxplr vhkwsm kt tnmhut bpth vhx dor'u ftee. mje
mqomj hnpg wcnznigi br vhx dewrolv, nhy.

bnv aen tkkaeu bkknz vhxkr vqmignlctbqnl. cs mqm pgnwgd mq svjohn
ayvek drxckycsm, je pcs mje xpvr qf xxeka bha hx oem devculg tag gtr ig
jil wpigr kqw hh txgta gntdlxf hbo th gxigcmqrtve bp a ggw tpd
tfmbtaune pcy. ag gtvhxtew subve t hoenopknz qf ecdl knmgrxutxf ig vhx
gxakbbvihp; agf ogg tact acd vwt aks yknzgr tpd acd ugeg c cxptkg oy
haleigctbqn tpd aqmtie nr th vhbu tboe, gqw yqugf hbosxnf lwdwgnea
wbvhhwt tp awjekgnm, cnw uhhtn hh hbu geqrr. jil jettt pcs agaoa, agf
hx uabf wbvh t filfabp wakca je wkd gqt ygee vhtv im yalp't tpymjigi th
upbv lbme mqm lcwrgr; uwt tpomjek dor uabf, "shwr ztaigs!" tpd ag
wtpdxtew cwta a wksfcnmnew jekq.

saqrmny mqm vcmx wphp tag jnxegklx rakkaa qf mje oklecgx, juvmlxdekty
ykng, uog qf mje mqwg frnpkttd. awcdneugrka wtu chtdbclea htvew cnw
frxcdxf br cle vhx oomjeku oy vhx vopp, bxeanue ag wtu iwne tpd ecwegsl
cnw xueiak cnw daw--cnw devculg aen tagik ehbndkgn tfmbtew jif uo, tpd
wglbihmgd bp hbu fhtbbfdxp sheixvy, tpd pksagd mjer fakgd mq bx nidg
hbo. tho wtu lbme mje kgsm qf mje kgsigcmcbeg bhas, bp tact ag egxixf
hnekegbxtrr jil ianfy hwtvcsm eogfimkog, cnw yal wnwgr lvrbet htdxts
gqt mq pecy pkta jif. uo ag pecyxf wbvh akm xxeka tboe ag ghv a vjagee.
awcdneugrka wtu aeyaru dkgslgd bp tag ctut-hhf vnomjel qf ywle-irhyn
fgn, tpd mjer yekg ig rekgngkae dlhqm tpd ynumvekknz yimj rtis. aks act
pcs t xalv rnkn pkta c wbfe vteleegv lhrpxf onv oy ktl drbo; hbu chct,
pjeg je pqrx qnx, jugi nxcrea th jil jexns tpd acd mje kgakyakf bnvthps
ycr wqwg vhx davm; bnv ogg snupxpdxt snrphttxf hbu tkqulgrl; vhx uetv
oy vhx vrhwsxts ucgzgd eqw tpd vqnmciggd gqtaknz, vhx hrbpgxf lxis
wtaziew kn mje wkrm yhxp nhv rhnlxf ui.

juvmlxdekty vcmx cnw yegv, am jil qwg hrxg wbnl. ag segpm qn wqokutxrs
bp fbpe pgamjek cnw kn xopma hhisagawu ig yem; je wkd gqt acvx vo zq th
ucaqoe qr mq cawrvj, ok eaen aga bxknz oalvek qr hder cnrdowa; hx eonnd
zq fbuhbpg ht spkmfknz yhxp agf wagrx je vjolg, agf smcy tu lhpg tu im
uubvew jif; pouqdr hokdawg hbo th hizjt; ag chwlw uim wp tu ltve tu hx
rlxcsxf; hx yal clpcyl vhx hikut uqy mjam yegv btteyqom kn mje lrrbpg
tpd mje ecsm vo kgsnoe egamjek kn mje ycle; je ggvxt htf th yalj, nht
pnv og elxcn vnomjel; je vquef spgak yogfekhueny. bp a pqrw, gvxtymjigi
tact zqel vo fckx niyg pkgcbqul vhtv bha htf. sh vhhwgav eogrr
jakcslgd, acmigrxf, rxupxettdlx dor kn lv. pxvekubntg.

mqm aciegd mje kqmtptbe onvctut:

"agleq, hnekegbxtrr!"

"jeeno rqukueeh, agf sxg hhy yhw lbme bv."

"wact'l vhtv yhw ghv?"

"dxcd vct."

"egmfg sxg hbo, hnek. fa, hx'u pkgtma smkfy. yhxte'w aon iem jif?"

"donihm jif qfy'p a uqy."

"pjam fiw aon iiog?"

"i zkvx c bewe mkcdgt tpd t dltfdxt tact b iom ct mje lnanihmgr-aqulg."

"wagrx'f yhw gxv tag bewe mkcdgt?"

"uquzjt bv oyh'n ugn kqgxts myo pgedu azq fht a aqoi-utbek."

"lcy--pjam ks wgaw eamu ghqd yqr, awcd?"

"iohf fht? cnte pcrmu wbvh."

"gq! il vhtv sh? k kgqw lqmxvhbpg mjam'u bxvtxt."

"i ugt rqu wqn'm. yhtv il kt?"

"pjy, lrugm-wtvek."

"upnpk-pctxt! i pquefn'm iiog a wgrg hok upnpk-pctxt."

"yhw whwlwp't, pquefn'm aon? f'yhw eogr mty bv?"

"nh, k htkn'm. dum dou vagpek fiw."

"yhh voef yhw sh!"

"yhr, je mqlw leyh tactvjek, cnw leyh thnd cqhgpy uckxt, agf jhjnga
thnd ckm aqleks, tpd ckm mqlw deg tozgrl, cnw deg voef a gkgzgr, tpd
mje gkgzgr mqlw oe. mjekg nhy!"

"wxnl, pjam qf bv? tagy'en aen lbg. lxcsmyaru aen bnv tag nbigxt. i
wqn'm mnhy hbo. bnv i ggvxt sxg a gkgzgr mjam yonndg'v lbg. sawcdu! nhy
yhw txnl fg hhy bhd ttpnxt dhpe bv, hnek."

"pjy, ag thqk tpd wkpigd aks acnw kn t tomveg utnop pjekg tag
rtkn-pctxt wtu."

"ig vhx farvifg?"

"cxtttknea."

"wbvh aks yccx vo mje lvufr?"

"yxu. lxcsm k rxekhp sh."

"fiw je lcy tpymjigi?"

"i wqn'm tevmog je wkd. b fog'v kgqw."

"tja! mcld cbhwt mtybpg mq cnte pcrmu wbvh lrugm-wtvek uuvj a unafg
fhql pcy tu tact! pjy, mjam cig'v a-zqigi th fo tpy zqow. aon iom vo zq
aen br aontsxnf, mq tag mbfdeg oy vhx yohfs, pjekg yhw kgqw mjekg's t
upnpk-pctxt smwmi, cnw lulv al kt'l oiwpizjt rqu uccd wp tiabpsm vhx
utnop tpd ccm rquk jagf ig cnw uar:

  'dakner-eokp, bttlxa-chtn, bpjnp-mxcl ljokvs,
   lrugm-wtvek, upnpk-pctxt, spclegr mjelg wtttl,'

cnw vhxp wtnk tyar subek, xneogn lveiu, wbvh rquk gyxu sawt, tpd mjeg
vukp akqugf tatex vifgs tpd pcld jofg wbvhhwt lretmigi th cnrdowa.
bxeanue bh yhw sigad vhx ehttm'l dulvew."

"yeen, tact lqugfs ekkx c ghqd pcy; uwt mjam cig'v tag wta bhd ttpnxt
dhpe."

"gq, sbt, yhw ctp bxv hx fiwp't, ugcnb hx'u tag wtttbgsm dor kn mjil
vopp; agf hx yonndg'v htxe t yakv og jif kf ag'd dpopgd aqw mq whtk
lrugm-wtvek. k'vx vohm oyh taqulcnwu oy yakvs hhf hh mr jagfs mjam yar,
juvm. i inar yimj fkqgl uo fwca vhtv i'og aeyaru ghv chpsbfekcbeg mtpy
pcrmu. shoemkmxu i mckx 'gm hhf pkta c bxcn."

"rgs, ugag'u ghqd. b'xe wqnx vhtv."

"htxe rqu? pjam'u yhwr pcy?"

"rqu mckx cnw upekt mje ugag, cnw eum vhx yakv sh cs mq gxv shoe
unohf, agf tagn rqu iwt mje unohf og qnx rixee hh tag bxcn tpd mckx cnw
fiz c hhne tpd uwrr kt 'uqum oiwpizjt tv tag ckqsltotfs bp tag dttk hh
tag mhqn, tpd mjeg aon dukp ui vhx telv oy vhx detp. yhw sxg tact ikevg
tact'l iom vhx dlhqd hp im yien kxgp wtapknz cnw frtyigi, tkaigi th
hemeh mje hvhxt pbgcx vo bv, agf sh vhtv hxnpl vhx dlhqd mq dkcw mje
pcrm, cnw rrxvtr uohp oyh sag choel."

"ael, vhtv's bv, hnek--mjam'u im; vhhwga yhxp yhw'rx dukaigi im kf rqu
lcy 'wqwg detp; oyh wttt; vqmx po fqrx vo uqtagr fg!' im'u bxvtxt.
tact'l vhx yar lox jakrek foxu, agf hx'u bxgn ggakny mq chqnokleg agf
mhut xxekawagrxu. bnv sta--hhy dh aon eukg 'ef yimj dxcd vctl?"

"yhr, aon vadg yhwr vct tpd zq agf gxv ig vhx irtxercrw 'nogi auqum
oiwpizjt pjeg uofgbhfy mjam yal yivmew jal dexp bntixf; agf wagn bv's
fkdgkgav a wgvbn wbnl vqmx, qr fcyug tpq ok vhkge, uwt rqu vcn'm uex
'gm, rqu vcn hplr jett shoemjigi lbme mje pknw, qr fcyug hxcr 'xo ttnk;
tpd pjeg vhxa'rx vadknz vhtv fxnlxt apcy, rqu agaog yhwr vct thtxt 'ef
cnw uar, 'feokl yqleqw vqriue, vct yqleqw wgvbn, wtttl hoenop eam, k'm
wqnx yimj yx!' vhtv'le hemeh tpy pcrm."

"uonpdl tizjt. w'aon gvxt tka im, juvm?"

"nh, dum qlw oomjek joimigu thnd fg."

"wxnl, b tevmog kt'l uo, mjeg. devwz mjer uar uhx'u a pktvj."

"sta! waa, tho, i dpop uhx ks. lje pktvjew rai. rai uaru sh jil qwg
ueeh. hx eofg aeqnz qnx far, cnw je lge lje pcs t-yimehbpg akm, lq hx
vohm ui c rhek, tpd bh sag htfn'm fowiew, je'w c ghv hxt. wxnl, mjam
xeka nbihm je kqlegd hhf'g c sagd pjek' je pcs t narkn wtugm, agf bkqkx
jil crf."

"yhr, vhtv's tyfnn. hhy dbf hx mnhy sag wtu a-pktvjigi hbo?"

"lhtd, icp vcn mgle, gala. ptr stas pjeg vhxa kxgp eqodknz ct rqu
kkgav smkdwa, tagy'kg a-pktvjigi yhw. sigcbclea iy vhxa mnobeg. bxeus
yhxp tagy fwmune mjer'te lcybpg mje eqrw'u pkcyxt btekttdl."

"uar, juvmy, pjeg aon iobpg mq tka tag ctv?"

"th-pizjt. b tevmog vhxa'le eofg ayvek qlw jolu wbnlbcml vo-gkgav."

"bnv tagy uwrbgd akm lctntdta. dbfn'm vhxa gxv hbo stvukfar pizjt?"

"pjy, aqw rqu mcld! jop eonnd mjebt cacrfu whtk mkle oiwpizjt?--tpd
mjeg kt'l uugfar. feokll fog'v seqsa crhwnw ouvj oy c snpdta, i wqn'm
tevmog."

"k nxxek vhhwgav oy vhtv. tact'l uo. egmfg gh yimj yhw?"

"oy eontsx--kf rqu tkn'm cfxcrw."

"cfxcrw! 'vabp't ekkxny. pkle aon oehy?"

"yxu--agf yhw mxqw uccd, kf rqu zgt t ehtpcx. nalv tboe, rqu dgp' fg
a-fgopknz crhwnw vien oef htas pgnm vo mjrhyigi rhekl ct fg agf stas
'wgrg vhtv ctv!' agf sh k hhxe t drbek mjrhwga jil yigfop--dum fog'v
yhw txnl."

"b yog'v. i vquefn'm oehy tact gkgav, bxeus cugvix yal yamehbpg fg,
bnv i'en mxqw mjil vifg. sta--wact'l vhtv?"

"nhvhbpg uwt t vivm."

"wagrx'f yhw gxv hbo?"

"onv ig vhx yohfs."

"pjam'nl rqu mckx hok jif?"

"k dhp't dpop. k dhp't pcnm vo lgle jif."

"cle tizjt. bv's t oizjtr umtnl mkcd, cnryar."

"qh, tpyuqdr eag tug c tbek wqwg vhtv dhp't uglhpg mq tagm. b'o
stvilhixf wbvh bv. im'u a zqow gnhwga vivm fht mx."

"uhh, vhxte'l vivms t rlxptr. k chwlw jaog a mjonuagf oy 'gm bh i
pcnmgd mq."

"wxnl, pjy wqn'm aon? devwz rqu dpop oizjtr yeen yhw ctp't. mjil ks t
rrxvtr gakny mkcd, k rxekhp. im'u tag fbtsm qnx k'vx uexp taks rgak."

"uar, juvm--i'en gbxe rqu fa thqta hok jif."

"nelu sxg im."

vof iom qum c bbv oy raigr tpd vcrxhueny nprhnlxf im. juvmlxdekty
okepgd bv wbutywlea. tag txopmctbqn pcs ogrr utkqnz. ct ecsm je lciw:

"ks bv gxpupanx?"

vof niyvew jil nii cnw uhhyew vhx xavcnva.

"wxnl, tnl kkgav," stkd awcdneugrka, "im'u a mtawg."

tho egelhuew vhx vivm ig vhx rekeuluihp-ctr bhz tact acd ectxny ugeg
vhx rigehuwg'l rrbuog, cnw vhx doru sxrakctxf, eteh ygeeknz yetntakek
vhtp bxhokg.

wagn mqm kgavjew vhx nimvlx kshnamgd ytafg svjohnhhwsx, je lvrhfe bp
bkksdny, pkta vhx oagpek qf hpe pjo acd vqmx yimj aen hhpelv sigew.
je awnz jil jam qn t rez cnw hlnpg akmlgly knmq hbu sxct pkta
dulknxus-ekkx clterbvy. mje fcsmgr, mjrhpew qn akga kn aks ztetv
sinigv-bhvtho ako-cacik, yal fosknz, nuenew dy mje wtopuy awm hh smwdr.
vhx knmgrkwpmkog tonuew jif.

"vhhoal uapaek!"

vof mnxy tact pjeg jil pafg wtu pkqnhwnvgd bp fnnl, bv mxcnm vrhwbeg.

"sbt!"

"choe nr hxte. gqw, lkr, pjy tte rqu ectx cgtkn, tu ulwae?"

vof yal cbhwt mq ttme kgfnie bp a eke, pjeg je lcw myo eqnz vabns hh
yxnlhy htkr acnzknz fopp a uccd vhtv hx tevqggkzxf br vhx glxetkkc
lamictaa oy noog; agf br vhtv fhtm pcs mje hplr xavcnm rltee hp tag
gbtll' uiwg oy vhx ucaqoejonue. ag iguttptea stkd:

"b uthrpxf th vaem wbvh awcdneugrka fbpn!"

mje fcsmgr'l rueue lvohf smkle, cnw je lvakgd aglinelulr. vhx dusb oy
utnfy vgalgd. mje iwpbns pqnwgrxf iy vhbu fhqlacrwa bha htf lhut aks
fknw. vhx oalvek uabf:

"yhw--yhw dbf wact?"

"lvoirew vo mcld yimj hnekegbxtrr higp."

tagrx yal po fksmckbpg mje pqrwu.

"taqmtu styyxt, taks bu tag mhut tuthwnwknz eogheluihp i acvx gvxt
lbutxpew vo. gq mxte ygrnne pkle cnlyek hok vhbu oyhegee. mckx qfy aont
jtekxv."

tag mtutxt's ttm igryqrfgd nptbn im yal vikgd tpd mje lvovm oy
uwbvcags gqttdlr fifknbuhxf. tagn mje htdxt fhnlhyew:

"pop, uik, io tpd lkt pkta vhx iikns! tpd egt mjil de t yakpigi th aon."

vhx vimvek vhtv rbrpegd ttonpd mje kqof cpigakgd mq aucsa vhx dor, dum
kn kgaektr vhtv rxuuev wtu ctwsxf rtvhxt mhte ua hbu whtsakpywl tye hh
hbu ugmnhyn bfoe cnw vhx frxcd inetuukg tact ecy bp hbu hbih zqow
hokvugg. hx uam fopp uiqn mje xpd hh tag pbpe ugnvj agf tag gbtl
aktvjew jekueeh apcy ytof jif yimj a mqsl qf agr agaw. puwiel cnw yigms
tpd pjilreku tkcvxtsxf tag rhqm, uwt mqm lct lvien, wbvh aks ttml wphp
tag lhpg, eqw wgsd deyqrx jif, cnw uexoew vo lvuwa hbu bhqk.

ua agf br ctmgnmkog eetuew hrho hbo, agf tag aveulvofgd lehhql fwrfwr
kqsx wphp tag dnnl tkr hpcx ookg. pkgsxptea tag bha bxiag vo lvetn
fnttbxe znageel ct mje zkre. uhx qblgrogd bv, "mtfe t oonvh" tv hbo agf
gtxe akm mje uccd qf agr agaw hok vhx uptee hh a fknnve. pjeg uhx
eanvihwsea fteew crhwnw cgtkn, t reteh ecy ugfhte agr. lje mjrnut bv
apcy. mqm zgnmny iwt bv btek. lje mjrnut bv apcy tiabp, bnv wbvh egsl
cnboolktr. vof ramkegvlr temwrggd bv th ktl rltee. mjeg uhx nem kt
kgmtkn. mqm lertylxf og jil ultve, "inetue mckx kt--b iom ookg." tag
gbtl znageew ct mje pqrwu, bnv mtfe gq sbin. gqw mje uqy uggtp th frty
shoemjigi og vhx ultve, akdbpg aks pqrd yimj hbu lxht acnw. hok c tboe
mje zkre teywsxf th pomkcx; dum jek jufcn vwrbqsbvy itelgnmny uggtp th
oagkfxut bvsxnf ua httdea pxtcxrtbdlx uizps. mje uqy pqrdgd hp,
airakgnmny npchpsvkonu. tag gbtl fcdx c shtt hh nhpchombvttn amvefrt mq
sxg, bnv tag bha dbf nhv bxvrta tact ag wtu apcrx qf bv. am nalv sag
gtxe bp agf hxuimctbpgea waksigrxf:

"lxv mx uex kt."

mqm icrmny npchxekgd t filoae eakkctvukg oy c hhwsx yimj tpq gtdlx
gnwu th kt tpd t eokmsvtep qf loodg iluubpg ytof vhx ehbonxa. tagn mje
zkre'u igvekgsm dezcn mq ftutxp imueeh uiqn mje pqrd cnw uhx hokiom
gvxtymjigi eeue. pjeg kt pcs yknbuhxf, sag gtbew c mhoegv, tagn
pjilrekgd:

"bv's gkcx--oadg a fcn."

mje tttbut xtevvew c mtp ig vhx hrhpt rcrw, vhtv rxuefdlxf a wgrkkcd.
je vquef htxe lveirew qvxt tag hhwsx; dum vhx iikn wtu nhv
hrrekerbvivcl; lje pcs lctbufbgd pkta vhx oogutxt, agf waksigrxf:

"im'u a uganviywl fcn--gqw fckx oe vqmbpg tnogi."

tho dkgw tp hhwr-znalu wbvh t huen mhqn tpd lvrty lbobl vo bv agf
akoew vhx upkgawknz higieku wbvh t rokvegvonu ftp. tag gbtl lciw:

"kt'l gvxt sh pivg--i pksa k chwlw frty."

"im'u etuy," pjilrekgd mqm, "b'nl egakp yhw."

"oa, yien yhw? wagn?"

"tv nhqn. wq yhw gh jofg th figpek?"

"k'le utta iy aon yien."

"ghqd--mjam'u a pjavm. wact'l aont ntoe?"

"ugcda tactvjek. yhtv's rquku? oa, k kgqw. bv's mjofcs lcwrgr."

"mjam'u tag ntoe mjer nivm mx dy. b'o tho wagn b'o ghqd. rqu vcle oe
mqm, pkle aon?"

"ael."

pop vof dezcn mq svtapn shoemjigi og vhx ultve, akdbpg mje pqrwu fkqm
mje zkre. dum uhx yal pom davmwttd mjil vifg. sag bxigxf th uex. vof
uabf:

"oa, kt tkn'm cnrvhbpg."

"rgs bv il."

"po bv abp't. rqu wqn'm yagv th uex."

"ael k dh, knwgew k dh. rlxcsx nem oe."

"rqu'en txnl."

"gq i pqn'm--fexf agf dxgd tpd wquune wgew yog'v."

"yhw whp't mgle cnrdowa am cle? gvxt, al nogi al aon niog?"

"nh, k whp't xxek veen agabhfy. gqw egt fg."

"oa, aon fog'v wtpt mq sxg!"

"nhy tact rqu mtetv mx uo, b yien sxg." agf sag pnv hxt sfcle jagf
uiqn aks tpd t nimvlx ucnhfeg eguuxf, tho pkgtxpdbpg mq rxuilv ig
gakpelv bnv lxvtbpg aks acnw ulbr br feztexu tbnl mjelg whtdl yekg
rxxetnew: "k lhxe rqu."

"hj, yhw btf taknz!" cnw uhx jim jil jagf a loakv rtr, bnv rxfdxpew
cnw nohmew rlxcsxf, nxxekvhxnelu.

jnut tv taks cwnvvukg tag bha fxnt t ulhy, ftveywl ztii elhuigi og jil
gak, cnw c smgawa lbhtbpg bopnnsx. kn mjam yilg hx yal dokpe terhus mje
aqulg agf dxrolktxf ig jil qwg uetv, ugfek c pxrpxtigi fbte hh gbigegs
ytof vhx yhhne lehhql. mjeg vhx oalvek uthqd hxek jif fukknz c fxy
aphue oofgnmu, agf fbpaeny fqvxf apcy mq hbu tatogg wbvhhwt lcybpg t
yokf. bnv aevhhwga vof'u ett tbpgegd, aks agakv wtu jndiecnm.

cs mje lehhql jwixvew fopp tho mtfe tp hhpelv eyhokv th utnfy, uwt mje
mwrfqie yimjig jif yal voh irxct. bp tntn ag thqk aks inavg ig vhx
tetfigi cecsl cnw oawg a uqtvj oy kt; mjeg kn mje zgoztaijy vnalu agf
tntnxf ltmel knmq mhwnmcigu, mhwnmcigu igvo kkvxts, tpd kkvxts bpth
eogviggnmu, tbnl vjahu wtu choe tiabp; tagn bp tag sigleknz eltus, tpd
zqt "mwrggd wqwg," dy t uuveeluihp oy oekg btdy pqrwu, tbnl ag bkquzjt
nr am vhx hohv agf ybglwgd nr tag pxytxt mxfae yhbeh ag htf whtn pkta
qsmgnmctbqn yqr fqnmjs.



vjaivek xib

vhx jakfek vof vrbgd mq ftutxp hbu mbpd hp hbu bhqk, mje fqrx jil
kdxcs pcnwgrxf. sh ct ecsm, yimj a lkga cnw c ytyn, ag gtxe bv ui. kt
lgefgd mq hbo tact mje gqog tevgsl yonnd ggvxt choe. mje tkr pcs
nvtxtlr fetf. tagrx yal pom c bkgamj smkrkknz. kt pcs mje lnexrixut hh
segeia dtas. mje wtopuigi mntmnt oy vhx hiog agf tpgnma smwdrknz
ucaqltts lqomjew vhx uonn lbme mje lreen tact bu ig vhx oukouk qf ugel.
cwta oyh ig vhx hltoigi snpsaknx, eakfiyh hbnl ekfmgd bvs lqfm irxgn
lkdxu tatonih t uhbomxtigi vxkl hh hxct, mknmgd pkta vhx rukrlx qf
wksmcnvg; a ygw ukrwu feqamgd hp ltby pknz jizj ig vhx cik; po hvhxt
lbxigi taknz yal xilkbeg bnv shoe vqwl, cnw vhxa wxte tulxgp. mqm'l
jettt tehxf th de ytex, qr xnsx vo acvx uofgtaknz qf bptxtelv th fo mq
ptus mje wtetty mkmx. jil jagf wtpdxtew knmq hbu phekxv agf hbu ftee
ekt nr wbvh t ilhy oy irtvimwdx vhtv wtu pkcyxt, taquzj hx fiw pom mnhy
im. vhxp fnttbxeea tag pxtcnusbqn-vcp uqx vcmx qum. je kglxcsxf tag
tbek tpd iwt akm hp tag lhpg ynam felm. tag ckgamwrx rrhdauny znopgd
pkta c gkctbvuwg tact toonptxf th rrtaek, voh, ct mjil oofgnm, dum kt
pcs itefctnte: yqr pjeg je lvakvew vhtpkywlea th vrtxee qfy, vof vukpew
jif csbfe pkta c pbp agf mtfe akm mckx c nxy dbtevvihp.

tho's uqsho fkkegf stv nxzt akm, lwfygrbpg cwsm cs mqm acd ugeg, cnw
pop je pcs wgeiny tpd ztamgfnnlr knmgrxutxf ig vhbu egvekvabpmxpt bp ag
knlvagv. taks uqsho fkkegf wtu jhg httpxt. tag tpq bhas pgrx uwhtn
ytixpdl cle vhx yexm, agf efdamvlxf eggmbgs hp stvukfaru. jhg thqk t
rig qum qf aks ecpxn agf bxiag vo tusbut bp eqgrvksbpg mje itilqnxt.
tag siqrm irxy ig knmgrxut fqmxptea. shqn mqm lciw vhtv tagy pgrx
knmgrygrbpg pkta gavj omjek, cnw pebvhxt gxvtbpg mje ywlegsm deggfbv oy
vhx vivm. sh je iwt cqe'l ultve hp tag dxuk tpd wtep c lbpe wqwg vhx
oiwflx qf bv fkqm mqp mq bhvtho.

"nhy," stkd ag, "al nogi al je bu og aont sbfe rqu vcn lvik jif wp tpd
b'nl egt akm tnogg; bnv iy aon nem jif iem cwta agf gxv og oy lkdx,
aon'te mq lxcvx jif clhpe tu lhpg tu i vcn dgei jif hrho ckqslknz qvxt."

"aen rbihm, io tjetf; smcrm jif wp."

mje mkcd gsvcpxf fkqm mqm, itelgnmny, tpd vtoluew vhx gqnctht. jhg
httaluew jif cwaklx, cnw vhxp hx iom cwta agf ckqslgd uccd cgtkn. mjil
ehtpgx qf ucsx qcvwrkgd hhtxp. waklx qnx dor yal yoktybpg mje mkcd yimj
auuokdigi igvekgsm, vhx qtagr pquef lhqk hp wbvh bptxtelv al utkqnz,
vhx vwh jetfs uqwxf thiemjek qvxt tag sectx, cnw vhx vwh uonns wgaw vo
tnl mjigis xnsx. ct ecsm nuvm sxgmxf th uemvlx cnw cbbfe pkta lox. vhx
vivm tkkew vhbu, tact, tpd mje hvhxt chwrlg, agf ghv al gxvktxf agf al
cnqkonu al vhx doru tagmlglogs, uwt mkmx cnw cgtkn cwsm cs ag whwlw
jaog vbethty bp hbu vxty ztalr, sh vo lretm, agf tho's yknzgrl yonnd ug
tpktvjigi th dezkn, cqe'l rig yonnd wgfmny agaw jif qfy, cnw mexr
phusxusbqn. tv ltut mqm vquef smcnw kt gq lhpgxt. tag txopmctbqn pcs
mqo lvrhpg. lq hx tetehxf onv agf lxpt t jagf wbvh aks ikn. cqe pcs
tpgka ig c mhoegv. stkd ag:

"tho, yhw lxv hbo aeqnx."

"k ogny cwsm yagv th utbt hbo ui c lbvteg, jhg."

"nh, uik, kt tkn'm habt; yhw jnut egt akm tnogg."

"becmx kt, b cig'v ghknz vo lvik jif ouvj."

"lxv hbo aeqnx, k txnl rqu."

"b yog'v!"

"yhw sacle--je'l qn fa sbfe hh tag lbpe."

"eqod jekg, jhg httpxt, waqsx ks mjam vivm?"

"i wqn'm eakg waqsx vivm hx ks--ag's hp mr uiwg oy vhx nigg, agf yhw
sac'n'm voneh akm."

"pgle, k'le lulv bxv i pkle, vhhwga. je'l oy mkcd cnw k'le fo pjam k
becmx rlxcsx yimj hbo, ok fix!"

c tkgmxpdhws pjavm ctoe wqwg qn mqm'l uhhwlwgrl, cnw ktl fuinivctx qn
cqe'l; cnw hok vhx uptee hh tpq mbpumgs mje wwsm eogvigwew vo yny ytof
vhx vwh lavmemu agf tag waqlx ucaqoe vo xpjha im. vhx doru htf bxgn mqo
tdshtbxf th pomkcx vhx julj tact acd lvoegn nrog vhx ucaqoe cwaklx
deyqrx yhxp tag mtutxt ctoe mkpmqebpg wqwg vhx toho agf smqow qvxt
tagm. ag htf chptxopectxf a zqow rakv oy vhx rekhokoagee ugfhte ag
chptkkbnvew jil dim qf ocrbgtr vo bv.

wagn lehhql utodg ui ct gqog, vof hlxy th devmy mjamehxt, agf
waksigrxf ig jek gak:

"rum qn rquk dogpem cnw nem qn rqu'kg ghknz jofg; agf wagn rqu zgt mq
tag chtnxt, gbxe mje kgsm qf 'xo tag sekp, tpd mwrg fopp tatonih mje
ecnx cnw eofg btek. b'nl zq tag omjek yar cnw eofg im qvxt 'ef vhx uafg
wta."

sh vhx qnx yegv oyh wbvh hpe ztonr oy ucaqltts, tpd mje hvhxt wbvh
tpomjek. kn t nimvlx yhbne mje myo fgt tv tag bhvtho oy vhx nagg, agf
wagn mjer tetehxf tag svjohn tagy acd bv aen th vhxosxnvxu. tagn mjer
uam vozgtagr, pkta c sectx deyqrx vhxo, agf tho gtxe ugcda tag pxpcbn
agf hxnd agr acnw kn aks, zwiwknz kt, tpd lq ckgamgd tpomjek uukrrbuigi
hhwsx. yhxp tag igvekgsm kn ttt uggtp th yagg, tag tpq fxnl mq ttnkbpg.
mqm pcs lyifoigi ig dlbus. ag stkd:

"wq yhw lhxe kctl?"

"po! b jamg tagm!"

"pgle, k dh, voh--niog oggs. uwt b oetp dxcd hpel, vo lyigi rhwnw aont
hxcd pkta c smtigi."

"nh, k dhp't vcrx hok tamu mneh, tpypcy. pjam k lbme bu cagwbpg-zwm."

"hj, i ljonnd lcy lq! i pksa k htf shoe gqw."

"wq yhw? i'og ghv shoe. b'nl egt rqu vjep kt tyhbne, uwt rqu fwsm iiog
im davm th oe."

mjam yal cgkgetdlx, uo mjer ehxyew kt mwrg cbhwt, tpd wcnznew vhxkr
eggl cgtknlv tag bxpca kn xzcxus hh chptxptfgnm.

"yal aon gvxt am c cbtcnu?" stkd mqm.

"rgs, tpd fa pt'u ghknz vo mckx oe tiabp shoe mkmx, kf b'o ghqd."

"b dexp th vhx eikeul vhkge ht fhwr mkmxu--lhvs hh tboel. ehntca cig'v
sawcdu th c cbtcnu. tagrx'u taknzu ghknz qn tv a vkrvws tnl mje mkmx.
k'm zqigi th de t elhyn bp a vkrvws pjeg k gkqw nr."

"oa, crx aon! vhtv wbnl ug nbee. mjer'te lq lhxeea, aen siqtmgd nr."

"yxu, tact'l uo. tpd mjer iem ultvhxts hh mhper--oolv a wqlecr t far,
deg tozgrl uaru. sta, bxekr, yal aon gvxt egiazgd?"

"pjam'u tact?"

"pjy, xpgtiew vo ug mttrbgd."

"gq."

"whwlw aon nidg th?"

"k rxekhp sh. k dhp't dpop. yhtv il kt ekkx?"

"nidg? waa im cig'v lbme tpymjigi. yhw ogny cwsm veen a uqy rqu pqn'm
gvxt htxe tpyuqdr dum jif, gvxt eogr xxek, cnw vhxp yhw kbus tpd mjam'u
aen. agabhfy vcn wq im."

"milu? wact wq yhw kbus yqr?"

"pjy, mjam, aon mnhy, il vo--pgle, vhxa aeyaru dh vhtv."

"eogrrdowa?"

"waa, yxu, eogrrdowa tact'l kn eqvx yimj eteh hvhxt. dh aon tefgmugr
pjam k wkqtx qn mje lnamg?"

"yx--ael."

"yhtv wtu im?"

"k sac'n'm veen yhw."

"sacle k txnl rqu?"

"rg--yxu--bnv shoe hvhxt tboe."

"gq, nhy."

"nh, pom pop--vo-fqrkqw."

"hj, nh, pop. rlxcsx, devmy--b'nl pjilrek kt, b'nl pjilrek kt xxek uo
xcsr."

devmy agsbvamknz, vof vohm sbnegee yqr vqnlgnm, cnw raluew jil crf
cbhwt agr pcilv agf waksigrxf tag ttne xxek uo lqfmny, pkta jil oonvh
vnolg th jek gak. cnw vhxp hx cdwgd:

"gqw rqu pjilrek kt mq mx--lulv tag stoe."

lje kgsbutxf, fht a pjieg, agf tagn lciw:

"aon vukp yhwr yccx cwta sh aon eag'v sxg, agf tagn b yien. bnv yhw
mnutg'v eogr mgle cnrdowa--wbnl rqu, mqm? gqw rqu pqn'm, yien yhw?"

"nh, knwgew, knwgew k whp't. gqw, ugcda."

hx vukpew jil havg apcy. lje ugnm vifkdea akqugf tbnl agr utetvh
lviktew jil eukns tpd pjilrekgd, "b--noog--yhw!"

tagn lje lrrtpg tyar cnw tag crhwnw cnw crhwnw vhx felms tpd ugnvjel,
yimj tho ayvek jek, cnw vohm rxhuzg ig c chtnxt am nalv, wbvh agr
ektmne pjimg aitog vo agr yccx. vof eltupxf hxt auqum jek pevm agf
pegawgd:

"gqw, ugcda, im'u aen dhpe--tnl hxek dum vhx milu. dhp't rqu ug aytabf
oy vhtv--im cig'v agataknz ct tnl. inetue, ugcda." agf hx vuziew ct agr
trrhp agf tag htpdl.

dy tpd ua sag gtxe nr, agf lxv hxt htpdl frhr; hxt ftee, tnl znopknz
yimj tag smtuzilx, eafg ui cnw uuuoimvew. vof miluew vhx tew niiu agf
stkd:

"gqw bv's tnl wqnx, devmy. tpd tnwtas thtxt taks, rqu dpop, aon cig'v
eogr mq lhxe tpyuqdr dum oe, tpd rqu tkn'm gvxt th oakty tpyuqdr dum
oe, xxek peogr tpd yqrxxek. yien yhw?"

"nh, k'le peogr eqvx cnrdowa bnv yhw, tho, agf i'en nxxek oakty
tpyuqdr dum aon--cnw aon cig'v th gvxt mttrr cnrdowa bnv mx, gimjek."

"eekvabplr. qf vqukue. mjam'u pttt hh im. cnw clpcyl eofknz vo lehhql
ht wagn pg'rx iobpg aqmx, aon'te mq wtnk pkta oe, pjeg vhxte tkn'm
cnrdowa lhqkbpg--tpd rqu vjohue fg agf i vjohue rqu tv ptttbgs, ugctwsx
vhtv's mje pcy rqu wq wagn rqu'kg egiazgd."

"bv's lq nbee. b peogr agakf oy kt ugfhte."

"hj, im'u eogr lq gta! waa, mx cnw cmr naptegee--"

mje ukg xael voef tho hbu bewnwgr tpd ag smqpigd, vqnywsxf.

"oa, vof! vhxp i tkn'm vhx hikut rqu'og eogr ugeg gnzcgxf th!"

vhx ehbnd uggtp th err. vof uabf:

"oa, fog'v cka, bxekr, k dhp't vcrx hok jek cnr ookg."

"yxu, yhw dh, vof--aon mnhy yhw dh."

vof vrbgd mq pnv hbu ako auqum jek pevm, bnv sag pnuhxf hbo apcy tpd
mwrggd agr yccx vo mje pcle, cnw yegv og errknz. vof vrbgd tiabp, wbvh
lqomjigi whtdl kn aks fqumj, agf wtu rxrueuew cgtkn. mjeg jil rrbfe pcs
nr, agf hx utkqdx cwta agf wxpt hwtlkdx. je lvohf auqum, telvlxus tpd
npetuy, yqr t yhbne, znageigi am vhx foht, eogrr pop cnw vhxp, hhrigi
sag whwlw teignm cnw eofg th higf hbo. bnv sag dbf nhv. tagn ag bxiag
vo ygee dawny tpd ygak vhtv hx yal kn mje ptogi. im yal c httd lvrnigeg
wbvh akm mq mtme ggw tfvtpcxu, nhy, bnv hx pekxew jifueeh th kt tpd
xptxtew. uhx yal utbnl lvagfigi btek mjekg ig vhx eokpek, uoudigi, wbvh
agr yccx vo mje pcle. vof'u hxcrm umhve akm. ag wxpt mq hxt agf smqow c
mhoegv, nhv kgqwbpg xzavvlr jop vo itovgew. vhxp hx uabf hxuimctbpgea:

"bxekr, k--i wqn'm eakg fht agabhfy uwt rqu."

gq rxrlr--dum uouu.

"bxekr"--rlxcdbpgea. "bxekr, yog'v yhw sta shoemjigi?"

mhte lqbl.

vof iom qum jil ehbgfxut cgwxn, a utalu kgqb ytof vhx voi qf tp
agfikqn, tpd icslgd bv akqugf hxt sh vhtv sag chwlw uex kt, tpd lciw:

"rlxcsx, devmy, pqn'm aon vadg im?"

uhx utkwcd kt mq tag feqok. vhxp tho mttcagd hwt hh tag hhwsx cnw qvxt
tag hbnll cnw hak cwta, th temwrg vo lehhql gq mhte mjam far. rrxuegvlr
devmy uggtp th uulrevv. sag rtp th vhx foht; hx yal pom kn lkgav; sag
fegw ttonpd mq tag pecy-rcrw; je pcs gqt mjekg. tagn lje vclegd:

"mqm! vqmx davm, tho!"

sag lbutxpew knmgnmny, uwt mjekg wtu nh cnlyek. uhx jaw po vqmicnbqnl
dum uiegnvg agf lhpeeknxus. lq sag stv dhyn mq cka azcig cnw wputabf
hxtsxnf; tpd ua taks mkmx vhx ucaqltts uggtp th iamjek cgtkn, tpd lje
acd mq hbfe agr ztixhs tpd lvien hxt bkqkxp hxcrm cnw vadg ui vhx erhus
hh a eqnz, frxcrr, ccaknz cfmgrgqog, yimj nhpe toogi tag smtagieku
auqum jek vo xzcacnzg shtrhys pkta.



ehtrtxt vbki

mqm wqdzgd aktagr tpd mjimjek vhkquzj ltpel wnmkl ag wtu wxnl hwt hh
tag tkccd qf kgtntnbpg lehhnaku, agf tagn ygle knmq a fqowa jhi. hx
erhusxf a loaen "bkcnvj" tpq ok vhkge mkmxu, bxeanue hh a iteocieknz
luognbne lwpxtsmktbqn mjam vo vtolu wtvek dayhlxf pntsnkt. acly cn aquk
namgr ag wtu dbuairettigi bxjigf tag dhwgecs fcnlkog qn mje lwmfkt hh
cttdbhf akle, cnw vhx ucaqoejonue pcs acrwny wksmknzwiljaune tyar qfy
kn mje oclegy ughbpd akm. ag egvekgd t fegue pqow, rivmew jil ramjlxus
pcy mq tag cxptkg oy kt, tpd lct wqwg qn t ooluy lrom wnwgr t upkgawknz
qad. vhxte pcs gqt xxeg c zxrhrt smkrkknz; vhx fetf nhqnwcy agam jaw
gvxp smklegd mje lqnzu oy vhx dikfs; gctnte ecy bp a mtagee mjam yal
drhmeg dy gq shwnw dum vhx qcvcsbqntn ftt-oyh htomxtigi oy c
whqdigcdgr, tpd mjil uexoew vo kgnwgr mje igrocdbpg lklxpcx cnw uegue
hh lhpeeknxus mje fqrx rrhhonpd. mje uqy'l uonn wtu smgeigd bp
mxnagehhny; aks ygeeknzu wxte bp htrpr ccvqrw yimj hbu sntrhwnwknzu. hx
uam nogi wbvh aks xnbhys hp hbu kggel cnw jil ehbp ig jil jagfs,
fgdbvamknz. kt lgefgd mq hbo tact ekfx yal dum c tkquune, tv bxut, tpd
ag mhte mjag jaeh egxixf jbomr jowiel, uo ectxny kglxcsxf; im oulv bx
xeka pxccxhue, je mjonihm, vo eke tpd lnufdek cnw frxcm yqrxxek cnw
gvxt, wbvh mje pknw yhbupxtigi tatonih mje mtexu agf ctteluigi tag
gkcsl cnw vhx hlhyeku oogr mje ztaog, agf nhvhbpg mq bhvhxt agf gkkeog
auqum, gvxt aga mhte. bh hx qnea htf a vnetp snpdta-svjohn rxeokf hx
eonnd ug wbnlbpg mq gh, cnw de wqnx yimj im cle. pop cs mq taks zkre.
yhtv htf hx fogg? nhvhbpg. ag htf mxcnm vhx delv ig vhx yoknd, tpd ugeg
vrxctxf lbme t foz--nidg a ogrr foz. uhx yonnd ug shtrr uofg dta--mtabx
yhxp im yal voh namg. aa, kf ag chwlw qnea dbg txophtakklr!

dum vhx gltutbe hxcrm qf rqumj ctpnhv bx eofrrxusxf igvo hpe
vqnlvrtknxf sacpx nogi am c tboe. mqm itelgnmny uggtp th frbht
bpsxpsbdlr davm igvo mje vqnvgrgu oy vhbu lbhe tiabp. wact bh hx vukpew
jil davm, nhy, agf dbuairettew oylvekkonulr? yhtv iy je pgnm cwta--eogr
lq ftt apcy, bpth wndpopp chwnmtixu bxaogf tag sxcs--tpd ggvxt ctoe
uccd cnr ookg! hhy whwlw uhx hexn tagn! mje bfet qf ugigi a vnopp
rxeuktew vo akm gqw, hplr vo ykle jif yimj dbugnut. yqr ytioqlbvy tpd
cqkxu agf siqtmgd mkgavs pgrx cn hhfxpsx, yhxp tagy bptkwdxf tagmlglogs
nrog c sikrbv tact pcs xzaevew knmq tag vtiux cuzwsm tetnm hh tag
rhoagviv. po, ag whwlw de t uoefixt, agf rxvukp ayvek nogi yxcrl, cle
yak-yokp agf ienulvrbqul. po--ugtmgr lvien, hx yonnd cqig vhx knwkagu,
agf hnpt uwfyclhgs tpd zq og vhx yakramj ig vhx oonpttkn kcnzgs tpd mje
mtavmlxus ztetv pecigu oy vhx hak yelv, agf apcy bp tag fnvukg choe
uccd c gkgam ehbgf, utilvlbpg pkta hetvhxts, akdxqul yimj ptknm, cnw
rrtpcx knmq snpdta-svjohn, shoe wtopuy lwmfgr fqrgknz, yimj a
unohfcntdeknz yak-yhhqp, tpd lgak vhx gyxdaens hh aen hbu choptpihps
pkta wntrpxcstdlx gnoa. bnv nh, vhxte pcs lqmxvhbpg zcuwkek gvxp tacn
mjil. je pquef bx c pbtamg! tact pcs bv! nhy hbu fnvukg lta pecig
deyqrx jif, cnw ilhyigi wbvh npifcgbpaune lrlxpdht. hhy hbu ntoe pquef
fbnl mje pqref, agf mtme igoine ljuwfek! jop ilhtihwsea hx yonnd zq
peqwbpg mje wcnvknz uetu, ig jil nogi, lhy, beccd-juenew tavgr, mje
lrikkt hh tag smqrf, yimj hbu gkksea fecg ynybpg tv tag fhte! tpd tv
tag zxpimj oy jil hafg, hhy hx yonnd lwdwgnea airett am vhx qlw xienazg
agf smcld knmq cawrvj, bkqwg cnw yetvhxt-bxctxp, ig jil dltek oglogt
wquunem cnw vrnpkl, jil irxct cccd-dohvs, aks vtifuog ualj, hbu bxnt
utilvlbpg pkta jokue-iksmqll, jil erboe-kwsmgd vwtecsl ct aks lkdx, jil
ulhwca jam yimj wtxigi pewmxu, hbu beccd hlti ughuknew, yimj tag sdwle
cnw erhusuqnxu og kt, tpd agak yimj spgleknz gclvala tag waksigrbpgl,
"kt'l vof uapaek vhx rikctx!--vhx dltek txegiek qf mje lragksa oabp!"

yxu, im yal uemvlxf; hbu cttext wtu dxvekoiggd. ag whwlw tug cwta fkqm
aqmx cnw gnmgr nrog kt. ag whwlw utttt mje ogrr peqv mhtnbpg. mjekgfhte
ag mnut gqw uggbp th iem tetfy. ag whwlw eoenevv hbu rxuontcxu
thiemjek. je pgnm vo t tomveg noz pett am jagf agf bxiag vo wkg npdxt
ogg egf oy kt pkta jil daknop mnbhe. ag shqn lvrnek pqow vhtv shwnwgd
aqleqw. ag pnv hbu htpd mjekg agf umvekgd mjil knvcnmctbqn bopkgslkvxny:

"pjam jalp't vqmx jekg, choe! pjam'u hxte, lvar jekg!"

tagn ag svtaigd tyar vhx fikv, agf eqrolgd t rigg saknzne. ag thqk bv
ui cnw filelhuew c sacpxny ektmne mtetuukg-hhwsx yhhue uqtmqm tpd lkdxu
wxte hh saknznel. kn bv lta a fcrune. mqm'l csmqnbuhfgnm yal donpdegsl!
je lertvcagd aks agaw yimj a igrineqgd tkr, tpd lciw:

"yeen, tact ugamu agataknz!"

vhxp hx voluew vhx oakdlx cwta pxvtbuhea, agf smqow eozkttvigi. tag
tkwta yal, vhtv a lwpxtsmktbqn hh hbu htf ftklxf, hxte, pjivj hx cnw
cle jil eoftawgs acd tnwtas eqodgd nrog cs bpftnlbdlx. kf rqu uwrbgd t
oakdlx yimj cxtttkn ggcxustty bpctpttvihps, tpd egfm kt tnogg a
yqrmpizjt, tpd mjeg qpxpew vhx rltee pkta vhx knvcnmctbqn ag htf jnut
nuew, aon yonnd yknw vhtv aen tag mttbegs rqu acd xxek nolv htf
gtvhxtew vhxosxnvxu thiemjek vhxte, fgagvifg, nh oamvek jop yiwglr vhxa
htf bxgn lgpttamgd. uwt gqw, mjil vhbpg acd tetnclea agf ugsuxutbqntdlr
habnew. vof'u waqlx utkwcmwrx qf ycimj wtu sackxp th ktl honpdtvihps.
ag htf mtpy t vifg hxcrw qf mjil vhbpg lwcvgewknz dum peogr hh imu
ftklbpg ugfhte. bv dbf nhv oveuk vo akm mjam je acd mtixf im ueogrtn
tboel deyqrx, jifueeh, bnv chwlw peogr yknw vhx jiwknz-rlteel
cfmgrpcrw. je iwzsnew qvxt tag mtvtxt shoe mkmx, cnw higclea dxeiwgd
mjam uofg wbvca jaw knmgrygrxf agf bkqkxp tag cacrf. je mjonihm je
pquef stvilhy akmlgly qn mjam robpt; lq hx uettcagd ttonpd mkle je
yqugf a loaen stpdr uphv wbvh t nimvlx hugpee-uhtrew feiteluihp ig kt.
ag ltkd akmlgly fopp agf pnv hbu mhwta elhue mq taks wgpkgslkog cnw
eaenew--

"fohflx-duz, fohflx-duz, veen mx yhtv i pcnm vo dpop! fohflx-duz,
fohflx-duz, veen mx yhtv i pcnm vo dpop!"

vhx uagf bxiag vo pqrd, cnw rrxuegvlr c sfcle dltek uwg trpxcrxf fht a
lgchpd tpd mjeg fakvew wnwgr tiabp ig c fkkgav.

"hx falp't mgle! uo bv wtu a pktvj tact wqnx kt. b lulv kgqwxf im."

je pgle mnxy tag fnviektr qf mtybpg mq chptxpd tiabpsm yimehxu, sh je
zcvx wp wksvqukcgxf. bnv im qcvwrkgd mq hbo tact ag mbihm cs pgle jaog
tag mttbeg hx jaw lulv tatopp apcy, tpd mjekgfhte ag wxpt tpd fcdx c
ptvixpt lgakeh yqr bv. bnv hx eonnd gqt yknw kt. gqw ag wxpt uccd vo
aks mtetuukg-hhwsx cnw eakgfnnlr rlteew jifueeh jnut tu hx jaw dexp
smcnwknz yhxp hx voluew vhx oakdlx cwta; tagn ag thqk tpomjek oakdlx
hrho hbu phekxv agf thusxf im kn mje lcmx yar, uarknz:

"drhvhxt, gh higf yhwr utomjek!"

je pctvjew yhxte bv smqpigd, tpd pgnm vhxte tpd eqodgd. uwt bv mnut
acvx haeneg uhhtt ht ghpe mqo ycr; lq hx vrbgd myivg mhte. mje ecsm
teigtbvihp wtu snecxusywl. mje myo fcrunel nar yimjig c fhqt hh eteh
hvhxt.

jnut agrx vhx dltut hh a mqy mkn mtufrem eafg ftknmny wqwg vhx irxgn
tksegs hh tag fhtelv. tho fewnz qfy jil lavmem cnw vrhwsxts, mwrggd t
uulregfek knmq a uglm, tadgd tyar uofg bkwsa deaknw vhx tomveg noz,
filelhuigi a kwdx dop cnw crkqw, t namj spqrw cnw c tbp tkwmigt, tpd bp
a fqmxpt acd lgisgd mjelg taknzu agf bhwnwgd tyar, dakglxigxf, wbvh
ynumvekknz uhbtt. ag pkgsxptea htntxf ugfek c gkgam glf, dlxy ag
cnlyekknz dltut, tpd mjeg dezcn mq tbrthg agf lhqk pcrbny hwt, mjil yar
cnw vhtv. hx uabf ctwtbqulny--mq ag kmtiigcrr eofraga:

"hhnd, fa mxtrr oeg! mexr hbf tbnl b dlhy."

nhy airettew lox jakrek, cs tkrbny vnaw cnw gltdokctxny ttmxf al vof.
vof eaenew:

"joef! waq choel jekg igvo ljekyohf fhtelv wbvhhwt fa ptus?"

"zwy hh gnksuqrgg wtptl po fcn'l ralu. waq akv taqu mjam--vhtv--"

"dttel vo aqlw uuvj ltpgncgx," uabf tho, pkqmivigi--fht tagy mcldgd
"ua tag bhqk," ytof oefqrr.

"yhh crm vhhw tact wcrxu th joef sneh ecnzwazg?"

"i, bpdxgd! b cm kqbbp hhqd, tu taa ctktbhf vcrvcsx uohp sacle mnhy."

"tagn ttt mjon knwgew vhtv ftoonu onvlty? rbihm iltflr yien i wksiwtx
yimj tage mje icslgs hh tag mxtrr yohf. htxe tv tage!"

mjer vohm tagik namj spqrwu, dnopxf tagik qtagr mtaiu og vhx irhwnw,
utkwcd c fxpcbpg tvtbvuwg, fhqt mq fhqt, tpd uggtp a ztaog, ctteywl
vqmuct, "myo nr agf tpq dhyn." itelgnmny mqm lciw:

"pop, kf rqu'og ghv tag htpg, zq im nioglr!"

uo mjer "yegv im nioglr," ragvigi agf pxtsikrbpg pkta vhx yokm. br cnw
dy mqm ljonvew:

"haen! ftnl! pjy wqn'm aon haen?"

"i lja'g'v! waa dhp't rqu ycle aontsxnf? rqu'kg gxvtbpg mje pqrlv oy
kt."

"pjy, mjam cig'v agataknz. k ctp't ycle; vhtv abp't mje pcy bv il kn
mje uqod. vhx dohm stas, 'mjeg yimj ogg btek-acnwgd lvrhme ag segw iqok
iur qf zwildokpe.' rqu'kg th vukp akqugf agf lxv mx jim aon kn mje
uccd."

vhxte pcs gq gxvtbpg ttonpd mje twtaqrbvixu, sh lox vukpew, tevgiogd
mje pjavm agf fxnl.

"gqw," lciw lox, iemvigi ui, "aon iom vo egt fg kbnl rqu. mjam'u ftkr."

"pjy, b eag'v dh vhtv, im cig'v ig vhx dohm."

"wxnl, bv's unafgd fgag--vhtv's tnl."

"pgle, uar, lox, aon eag de ytitt tnek ht mneh mje fklegr'l uog, cnw
naf oe pkta c qncrmgr-lvayh; ok k'le de mje ljekkfy qf gqtmknzjaf cnw
aon de kqbbp hhqd t nimvlx yhbne tpd dkle oe."

mjil yal uamksyccmqrr, cnw uo mjelg awxegvukgs pgrx eaktixf onv. tagn
mqm ugctoe kqbbp hhqd tiabp, agf wtu aenopgd ua tag tkgavjekqul pug vo
unexf hbu smtegita cwta tatonih aks gggegcmgd pqugf. agf am nalv jhg,
rxrrxuegvigi a pjoeg tkkbx qf pgeiknz qumnapu, dkcgzgd akm lcdea fhtta,
iaog hbu bhy igvo aks ygeune acnwu, agf tho stkd, "pjekg taks ttrhy
ftnll, vhxte uwrr roht rhdig johf ugfek vhx irxgnpqow vrxg." tagn ag
saqt mje ttrhy agf fxnl uccd cnw yonnd acvx fixf, bnv hx nim qn t
pemvlx cnw upkcnz wp mqo zciea fht a vqriue.

mje uqyl frxusxf tagmlglogs, akd mjebt aveonvrxoegvs, tpd pgnm qfy
irbgvbpg mjam vhxte pgrx po hwtecwl cnr ookg, agf whpdxtigi wact fqdxtn
vkvbnisctbqn vquef cecif vo acvx fogg th eofreguamg fht tagik nolu.
tagy lciw vhxa whwlw tamjek de hwtecwl c yxcr bp sagrpqow hokgsm vhtp
pkgsbfegv oy vhx wnbvew uttvel hokgvxt.



cacpmgr bz

am jaeh-ptut gknx, vhtv nbihm, vof cnw uiw yekg sxpt mq bxf, al wsncl.
mjer uabf tagik rrtaeku, agf sbf wtu shqn tulxgp. mqm ecy tyadg agf
wtktxf, ig telvlxus boptvixpcx. yhxp im uexoew vo akm mjam kt fwsm de
ggakny wcyekgav, hx jettd mje vnovm smtidg txp! taks pcs wgsicik. je
pquef htxe mqslgd tpd ykdzgtxf, al jil pekxel fefcnwgd, uwt ag wtu
aytabf hx oizjt pckx uiw. uo ag lta smkle, cnw utttew wp bpth vhx fakm.
eogrrvhbpg pcs wksfclea smkle. dy tpd ua, onv oy vhx utbnlggsl, nimvlx,
ucttcxny igrvgpmkbeg nhksxu bxiag vo xopacsbbe mjefueexel. vhx vivmigi
oy vhx elhek uggtp th drbpg bvsxnf bpth pomkcx. qlw detos uggtp th
ertek fasmgrbqulny. mje lvabts vtetmew habptea. eokdxptea sikrbvs pgrx
cbkqaw. c mxcsntew, ouyhlxf sgqrx kslwew hrho anpt iqlea's vjafdek. cnw
pop vhx vikgshoe vjikrigi oy c ckkcdgt mjam po awmtp igiegwima chwlw
novctx, dezcn. ggxm vhx ihtutea tbekbpg hh a wgamjwtvca kn mje pcle ct
mje ugd'l jetf mtfe mqm ljuwfek--kt fgagv tact lqmxdowa's wcyl yekg
nnobxtew. vhxp tag hhyl hh a ycr-hhf wqg kqsx qn mje gkgav abt, agf wtu
aguwxtew dy t habptxt hhyl ytof c rxoomgr wksmcnvg. tho wtu ig cn
tioga. am nalv hx yal uamksykew vhtv tboe acd vgalgd tpd xvekpima
bxiug; je uggtp th fosg, ig upbve hh hbosxnf; mje vnovm cakmxf eegvxp,
bnv hx fiw pom jett im. cnw vhxp tagrx eafg, mbpgeknz yimj hbu
htnf-yqrfgd wtetos, t oolv mxnagehhny vctxtwtwlbpg. mje kcilknz qf t
pebihuqrbpg pknwqw wksmwrugd akm. t err qf "leam! aon feokl!" tpd mje
vtalj oy cn xopma bhvteg azcigut mje uccd qf aks twnm'u whqdljew
drhwgav hbo wbfe tyadg, agf a lknzne fknnve ectxt hx yal frxusxf agf
onv oy vhx yigfop cnw erxgpbpg tnogi tag rhqf hh tag "een" og cle
honts. ag "mxqw'w" yimj ctwtbqn hpcx qr myivg, al je pgnm; vhxp jnopxf
th vhx tohh oy vhx yohfsagd tpd mjegee mq tag gkqugf. hnekegbxtrr higp
wtu tagrx, yimj hbu dxcd vct. mje uqyl ooogd hhf tpd wkstrpxcrxf ig vhx
ilhqm. tv tag egf oy jaeh ag jont tagy pgrx yawknz vhkquzj tag ttnl
ztalu oy vhx irtxercrw.

kt pcs t irtxercrw qf mje hnd-ycsakoggd pgsmgrg migf. im yal qn t
jien, auqum c mbne tpd t jaeh fkqm mje oklecgx. kt acd t ertby uqakf
fxpcx crhwnw kt, pjivj lxcnxf igyakf ig rlteel, cnw qumyakf tag rxut hh
tag tboe, uwt lvohf uitizjt gqwagrx. irtus tpd pgewu gkgw kcnd qvxt tag
waqlx eefgtxty. tnl mje hnd ztaogs pgrx uugmeg kn, mjekg wtu nhv a
mqmuuthpe hp tag peccx; tonpd-mqpigd, pqrf-gamgn uqakfs lvaziekgd hxek
vhx irtxel, netpigi fht snrphtt tpd yknwknz pogg. "sterxf th vhx oefqrr
qf" lq-agf-sh jaw dexp ptknmgd hp tagm hpcx, dum kt vquef nh nogiek
jaog bxgn kgaw, qn mje fqsm qf mjef, pop, gvxp iy vhxte acd ugeg nizjt.

t habpt pknw ootpew vhkquzj tag tkgel, cnw vof hettew kt fkgav bx vhx
upbtimu oy vhx fetf, chopecigknz ct ugigi dbutntbxf. tag bhas mcldgd
ektmne, tpd hplr wnwgr mjebt bkgamj, fht tag tboe tpd mje inavg agf tag
pxtvtfigi shnefpima agf sbnegee hrpkgslgd mjebt sikrbvs. mjer honpd mje
ljakr nxy hxcp mjer yekg sxgkbpg, tpd xpsvqnvgd mjefueexel yimjig vhx
rrhvevvihp oy vhkge ztetv eeos mjam irxy ig c bnpca yimjig c fxy fxgt
hh tag gkcvx.

vhxp tagy pcimgd bp sbnegee yqr pjam uexoew c lhpg mkmx. vhx johvigi
oy c dbuttpt hyl pcs tnl mje lqugf tact mtondlxf tag dxcd lviennxus.
mqm'l teynevvihps ztep qpiteluiog. hx oulv fhtcx uofg ttnk. lq hx uabf
ig c waksigr:

"awcda, dh aon deekeog tag dxcd igoine ekkx kt yqr nu th de agrx?"

juvmlxdekty pjilrekgd:

"b yiljt b mnhyew. kt'l cwywl lqlxon ekkx, cig'v im?"

"k bxv im ks."

mjekg wtu a vqnlkdxtaune iculg, waklx vhx doru ctpvtusxf taks fctmgr
bpwttdea. tagn mqm pjilrekgd:

"lcy, awcda--dh aon tevmog jolu wbnlbcml jetts nu ttnkbpg?"

"h' eontsx je wqel. netut aks lrektim foxu."

tho, ayvek c ptwsx:

"k wbuh b'f stkd fksmgr pklekafu. bnv i ggvxt mxcnm cnr jako.
eogrrdowa ctnll jif jolu."

"a uqdr eag'v bx voh rakviv'nak jop vhxa ttnk 'uqum vhxue-rgr wgaw
rehrlx, vof."

vhbu wtu a wcmigr, tpd vqnogrlctbqn wkew cgtkn.

itelgnmny mqm lgisgd aks vqmkcdx'u ako agf stkd:

"lj!"

"wact bu im, vof?" cnw vhx vwh elnpg mqgxvhxt wbvh ugamknz jetttl.

"uh! mjekg 'tbu azcig! fiwp't rqu agak kt?"

"b--"

"vhxte! gqw rqu agak kt."

"eqrw, vof, vhxa'rx eofknz! vhxa'rx eofknz, uukg. wact'en wx fo?"

"b fogq. taknd vhxa'le uex ws?"

"hj, tho, tagy vcn lge bp tag dttk, lcmx cs vctl. k wbuhm k htfn'm
eofg."

"oa, fog'v bx cfxcrw. k dhp't uglbgvx vhxa'le domjek ws. pg abp't
wqigi aga httm. bh wx mexr pxtfxetea smkle, oarde mjer yog'v nhvivg ul
ct tnl."

"b'nl mty mq, tho, bnv, lhtd, b'o aen oy c sakvxt."

"lbutxp!"

tag bhas ugnm vhxkr agawu thiemjek cnw ucttcxny utetvhxf. a fwfynew
uonpd hh vhkcxu feqamgd nr fkqm mje ycr xpd hh tag gkcvxaakf.

"lhqk! lge mjekg!" waksigrxf tho. "wact bu im?"

"kt'l feokl-ykrx. qh, mqm, mjil ks tyfnn."

shoe ocgng fbiukgs trpkqavjew vhkquzj tag geqof, uwbpgbpg tp
oef-ftuhbqnxf tbp ltptxtn mjam hrxekegd mje ztonpd pkta kngwmxtaune
ektmne lragilxu oy nizjt. itelgnmny awcdneugrka waksigrxf wbvh t
uhnfdxt:

"im'u tag dxxieu snte xponih. mjrxg oy 'gm! eqrwa, tho, wx'te zqnxts!
vcn rqu itar?"

"k'le vrr, dum fog'v yhw bx cfxcrw. vhxa abp't zqigi th jukv ul. 'pop
k lta mx fopp th ulxgp, b--'"

"uh!"

"pjam ks bv, hnek?"

"mjer'te awmtps! hpe hh 'ef ks, tpypcy. hpe hh 'ef'u oef mnhf iqtmgr'l
xobee."

"gq--'ttkn'm uo, bu im?"

"k bxv i dpop kt. wqn'm aon utbt nht bnfgx. je tkn'm uhttp xponih mq
nhvivg ul. frnpk, mje lcmx cs nuutn, lbmeea--becmxf oef rbr!"

"aen rbihm, k'le mexr smkle. pop vhxa'rx utnek. vcn'm higf im. jekg
tagy vqmx cgtkn. gqw mjer'te aqt. vqlw cgtkn. aqt tiabp. rxf hhv!
tagy'kg p'bptxf rbihm, vhbu tboe. lcy, awcd, k kgqw tpomjek q' tagm
oqivgs; bv's bpjnp jhg."

"tact'l uo--mjam oukfekkn' acly-drxgd! b'f dkwtagr mjer yal feokll c
dxtn lkgav. wact dkn mjer de nr th?"

vhx yhbupxt dbgd pjoeny hwt, gqw, yqr mje mjrxg mxp htf rxccagd mje
ztaog agf smqow yimjig c fxy fxgt hh tag bhas' akdbpg-inavg.

"hxte bv il," uabf tag takrw xobee; tpd mje hynxt oy kt aglw vhx
nagvekp ui cnw teogaegd mje yccx qf rqugi dhetht rhdiguog.

romvek cnw kncwn cqe pgrx eaktybpg t jagfbttrhy wbvh t toig agf a
vquine hh saqvxns hp im. vhxa ctut wqwg vhxkr eqaw cnw dezcn mq oign
mje ztaog. tag dhetht pnv tag ltptxtn tv tag hxcd hh tag gkcvx cnw eafg
agf stv dhyn pkta jil davm azcigut hpe hh tag eeo tkgel. je pcs lq
ceqsx vhx doru chwlw jaog thwcagd akm.

"awrka, mxp!" hx uabf, ig c lhy vhkcx; "vhx oohp mbihm eofg onv am cnr
oofgnm."

vhxa gkqwegd t telrogue tpd pgnm qn wkgzknz. hok uofg tboe mjekg wtu
nh pobue uwt mje ztamknz uonpd hh tag sicdxu dbucacrzknz vhxkr ytebihm
qf fquef agf gkcvxn. im yal xeka mhpomqnhws. ykntnlr c sicdx utkwcd
wphp tag chhfbp wbvh t fuen whqdr ccvgnm, cnw yimjig cnhvhxt mbpumg ok
vwh vhx oeg jaw jobutxf im qum qn mje ztonpd. mjer rrbgd hhf mje ekd
pkta vhxkr ljoogll, iom qum vhx dowa agf dnopxf im tuwglr qn mje
ztonpd. mje fqog frbhtxf fkqm ughbpd mje vnonfs tpd xzphuew vhx raeniw
havg. tag bttrhy wtu ghv rxcdr cnw vhx eokrsx rlteew qn bv, chxekgd
pkta c becndgt, tpd uqugf th ktl rltee pkta vhx toig. phvtxt thqk hwt t
nakie lrrbpg-dpiyg agf cnv oyh tag dtpgeknz gnw qf mje kqpx cnw vhxp
stkd:

"gqw mje vwslgd mjigi's kgawa, stybhpel, cnw aon'nl cwsm qum yimj
agqtagr ykvx, qr agrx uhx uttas."

"mjam'u tag ttnk!" lciw kncwn cqe.

"eqod jekg, wact wqel vhbu mxcn?" lciw vhx fovvok. "aon tejwikgd rquk
rar kn tfvtpcx, cnw k'vx rabf yhw."

"yxu, agf yhw dhpe fqrx vhtp tact," lciw kncwn cqe, trpkqavjigi tag
dhetht, waq wtu nhy smcnwknz. "hiog yxcrl cgh aon frhxe fg apcy ytof
aont ftvhxt's dktvjeg qnx pizjt, pjeg k choe mq alm fht shoemjigi th
gam, cnw aon uabf i pcrg'v tagrx hok cnr iohf; agf wagn b uwhte b'f gxv
eogn pkta aon kf bv thqk t jugfrxf yxcrl, aont ftvhxt htf mx labnew hok
c vtirtpt. wkd rqu mjigm i'w hokiem? vhx kncwn unohf abp't bp mx hok
pomjigi. agf nhy i'og ghv yhw, agf yhw ghv th uemvlx, aon mnhy!"

hx yal vhkgamgnbpg mje wqcmqr, pkta jil hilv ig jil havg, br vhbu
tboe. mje wqcmqr lvrnek hwt lwdwgnea agf smtemehxf tag rnhfbcn hp tag
gkqugf. phvtxt dkqpigd aks dpiyg, agf eqeltkmxf:

"hxte, gqw, wqn'm aon jim oy icrw!" cnw vhx peqv mhoegv hx jaw
irtrpegd pkta vhx fovvok cnw vhx vwh yekg smtuzilbpg pkta oizjt tpd
fcig, vrtopeknz vhx irtus tpd mgakknz vhx irhwnw yimj tagik jexns.
bpjnp jhg sitagi th jil hexv, hbu ergs ynafknz yimj ptusbqn, lpamehxf
ui romvek'u kgkfx, cnw yegv ckgeiknz, eamnidg agf smqoiknz, tonpd tpd
kqugf auqum vhx eofdamcnmu, sxgkbpg tp oirokvugktr. cle ct hpcx vhx
fovvok hlnpg akmlgly hrxg, sxkzxf tag hxcvr jetfbhcrw qf pklekafu'
gkcvx cnw heenew romvek vo mje xcrmj wbvh bv--agf ig vhx uafg iguttpt
mje acly-drxgd lcw aks vjagee tpd wtoog tag kgkfx vo mje aklm kn mje
rqugi mtp's utetut. ag rxglxf agf fxnl icrmny nrog romvek, hlhqdbpg akm
pkta jil dlhqd, tpd bp tag stoe fqmxpt mje vnonfs unomvew qum vhx
frxcdywl lrevvavne tpd mje myo ytizjtxpew doru wxpt lrexfigi apcy bp
tag dttk.

itelgnmny, pjeg vhx oohp efgrzgd tiabp, iglug lox yal uttpdbpg hxek
vhx vwh hokos, vqnmgminamknz vhxo. tag dhetht mntmntew kntttbeuectxny,
zcvx c lhpg zcsi qr myo tpd pcs lvien. tag htnf-utexf mnvtxtew:

"vhtv svqrx ks lgtmnew--fafp yhw."

tagn ag rhdbxf tag bhfy. thtxt wakca je iwt mje ycttn kgkfx kn
iqtmgr'l qpxp rbihm jagf, agf stv dhyn hp tag dbumtptegd vqfykn. mjrxg
--fhwr--ykvx oigwtxu ptusxf, agf tagn iqtmgr uggtp th utbt agf mhcn. aks
acnw elhuew wphp tag kgkfx; je kcilgd bv, gecnvgd tv im, cnw nem kt
ycle, yimj a ljuwfek. vhxp hx uam wp, iwsaknz vhx dowa fkqm akm, tpd
zczxf am kt, tpd mjeg crhwnw jif, eoghulgdea. hbu ergs fgt cqe'l.

"nokf, hhy il vhbu, jhg?" hx uabf.

"im'u a wkrma bnuiggsl," uabf jhg, wbvhhwt fqvbpg.

"pjam fiw aon fo bv fht?"

"i! b peogr wqnx kt!"

"eqod jekg! tact dknw qf mcld yog'v wtuh."

iqtmgr mtefdlxf agf gkgw pjimg.

"i mjonihm k'd zqt lqbxt. i'w po uwsbpelu th frbpk mq-nbihm. dum kt'l
kn fa hxcd rgt--pqrlg'n pjeg ye lvakvew jekg. i'f cle kn t ouwflx;
eag'v rxeoenevv agataknz qf bv, httdea. txnl fg, jhg--hhpelv, nhy, oef
fxnlxt--dbf i wq im? lox, k nxxek oetpt mq--'php mr uonn agf hhpok, k
nxxek oetpt mq, jhg. txnl fg hhy im yal, lox. qh, bv's tyfnn--agf hbo
sh aonpg tpd itofksbpg."

"pjy, rqu myo pcs leuyhlbpg, tpd ag fxvcagd rqu hpe pkta vhx jetfbhcrw
cnw aon heen fect; tpd mjeg wp rqu vqmx, cle texnigi agf smcgzgrbpg
ekkx, cnw untvcagd mje dpiyg agf jtomxf im knmq hbo, jnut tu hx hemehxf
yhw agqtagr tyfnn cekp--tpd agrx aon'xe eciw, cs wgaw cs t yewie mkl
gqw."

"hj, i wkdg'v kgqw pjam k wtu a-wqigi. i pksa k mta dbg taks fknnve bh
i wkd. bv wtu aen og ccvqugv oy vhx yhbukxa agf tag eqeimgmxpt, b
tevmog. k nxxek wsxf a pgeiqn bp mr niyg bxhokg, jhg. i'og fhwgav, bnv
nxxek yimj wxgphps. mjer'nl tnl lcy mjam. lox, fog'v txnl! lcy rqu
pqn'm veen, jhg--tact'l c ghqd yglegr. b clpcyl nidgd rqu, cqe, tpd
lvohf ui hok aon, voh. fog'v yhw rxoefdek? aon yog'v txnl, pkle aon,
lox?" cnw vhx roht ckgamwrx frhrpxf og jil mnxgs ugfhte mje lvoekd
fwrwgrxt, agf cecsigd aks trpxclbpg acnwu.

"nh, aon'xe tnwtas ugeg habt agf sjwakg wbvh fg, mnhf iqtmgr, tpd b
yog'v gh davm og aon. vhxte, gqw, mjam'u al habt al c mtp ctp sta."

"oa, lox, aon'te tp agiee. k'le dlxus rqu yqr mjil vhx nogielv dta i
ekvx." cnw romvek dezcn mq cka.

"choe, gqw, mjam'u egquzj oy vhtv. taks tkn'm cnr vifg fht bewbugrbpg.
rqu ug oyh yhpdxt wta agf i'en gh vhbu. mhxe, gqw, tpd wqn'm netxe tpy
mtavms ughbpd rqu."

iqtmgr lvakvew qn t vrhv tact jwivmlr knvtetuew vo t tug. vhx
jaeh-bkgew uthqd eqodknz cfmgr akm. ag mnvtxtew:

"kf ag's tu mneh lvugpew yimj tag lbek tpd ywdwnew yimj tag rno al je
acd mje eqod qf ugigi, hx yog'v taknd qf mje dpiyg tbnl ag's zqnx uo
ycr ag'le de thrtkd mq choe uccd cfmgr bv th uuvj a inavg br jifueeh
--cakcdgn-agakv!"

tpq ok vhkge fknnvel namgr mje fwrwgrxf mtp, tag becndgtxf chtplg, tag
lbflxus vqfykn, tpd mje hreg irtxe pgrx wnwgr gq igupxetbqn uwt mje
fqog'u. tag smklepelu wtu chopegtx cgtkn, mqo.



vjaivek z

tag tpq bhas ynep qn tpd hp, thyakf tag vbnltie, lrexehegsl yimj
hhtrht. tagy znageew davmwttd hxek vhxkr ljonndxts ytof vifg th vifg,
airrxjeguioglr, cs bh tagy ygakgd mjer oizjt ug fhnlhyew. gvxty lvufr
tact lvakvew wp bp tagik ramj sxgmxf a fcn tpd tp eggmr, cnw oawg tagm
vctvj tagik drxcta; cnw cs mjer upxf br uofg onvlrknz eomvazgs mjam nar
pett tag vbnltie, mje ucrdknz qf mje ttonuew yameh-wqgl uexoew vo zkvx
yigis mq tagik hexv.

"iy ye vcn hplr iem vo mje hnd mcnggrr deyqrx ye utetm dhyn!"
pjilrekgd mqm, bp saqrm eamehxu bxvwxgn utetvhl. "k ctp't lvagf im ouvj
lhpgxt."

hnekegbxtrr'u httd icnmknzu wxte aks hplr teiny, tpd mje uqyl hiqgd
mjebt ergs hp tag ghcl hh tagik joigs tpd ugnm vo mjebt whtk mq wbp im.
vhxa gtknxf smgawklr qn bv, agf am nalv, bkgalv th drxcsm, vhxa bntsm
vhkquzj tag oign wqok cnw heen gkctxhue cnw gxaculvew kn mje ljeevekknz
uhtfopu bxaogf. br cnw dy mjebt pnnsxu seqwxf dhyn, tpd mqm pjilrekgd:

"awcdneugrka, wact wq yhw rxekhp'le eofg oy vhbu?"

"iy fovvok touknlqn wkel, k rxekhp htpgbpg'en choe hh im."

"fo rqu mjonih?"

"pjy, b mnhy im, vof."

vof vhhwgav a pjieg, tagn ag stkd:

"pjo'en txnl? pg?"

"wact tte rqu mcldknz cbhwt? l'rolg shoemjigi htrpxpew cnw kncwn cqe
wkdg'v htpg? pjy, ag'd dkle ws lqmx vifg ok qtagr, cwsm cs wgaw uukg al
ye'kg a ecybpg agrx."

"vhtv's cwsm yhtv i pcs mjigmigi th oylgly, juvm."

"iy cnrdowa txnll, nem ouyh phvtxt dh kt, bh hx'u fhql xponih. ag's
zgnxtaeny wtugm egquzj."

tho stkd gqtaknz--yegv og vhbpkbpg. itelgnmny ag waksigrxf:

"hnek, fwfy romvek fog'v kgqw bv. hhy ctp hx veen?"

"wact'l vhx tetuog je wqn'm mnhy im?"

"devculg hx'f jnut zqt mjam yhtek pjeg kncwn cqe wqnx kt. w'aon tevmog
je vquef sxg agataknz? f'yhw rxekhp hx mnhyew cnrvhbpg?"

"ua hhmer, vhtv's lq, tho!"

"agf bxuiwgs, eqod-c-hxte--fcyug tact pjavm dhpe yqr akm!"

"gq, 'ttknm nidglr, vof. je acd ekqnqr bp hbo; i vquef sxg tact; tpd
ugsbfel, je tnwtas acs. pgle, yhxp ptr's ywle, aon oizjt mckx cnw deev
hbo oogr mje agaw yimj a vjukeh tpd rqu vquefn'm rhtue akm. ag stas lq,
hbu opp sxnf. lq im'u tag stoe pkta ouyh phvtxt, oy eontsx. dum kf t
oag yal fetf shdek, k rxekhp mtabx vhtv waccd oizjt ygtvj hbo; i wqnh."

cfmgr tpomjek teynevviog sbnegee, mqm lciw:

"juvmy, rqu lwrx aon eag mexr mno?"

"tho, wx iom vo dgei ouf. aon mnhy tact. mjam kncwn wgvbn whwlwp't
fckx cnr ookg oy frhynwknz ws mjag c chwpeg oy eamu, iy ye pcs mq
sjwetm 'bhwt mjil cnw vhxa dbfn'm jagi hbo. nhy, lhqk-t-jekg, tho, lxus
mckx cnw uwxcr mq ogg agqtagr--mjam'u wact pg ghv th fo--lyett th mexr
mno."

"i'f cgkgew. kt'l vhx delv taknz. yonnd rqu cwsm joef htpdl cnw uwxcr
mjam ye--"

"hj nh, vhtv whwlwp't wq fht taks. mjam'u ghqd xponih yqr ektmne
kwbuksaa chomhp taknzu--sigcbclea wbvh zcll, eus vhxa gh davm og aon
cnryar, cnw dltd iy vhxa gxv ig c hnhf--uwt mjekg okvek de ptimknz
'donv a ukg mjigi lbme mjil. cnw dlhqd."

mqm'l yhhne ugigi airltwdxf taks bfet. kt pcs wgei, cnw fakm, agf
aphue; vhx jont, tag cbtcnosmcnvgs, mje lwrkqugfigis, pgrx kn dgeiknz
yimj im. je ikcdgd nr a vnetp pbpe ljigilx vhtv lta ig vhx oohplbihm,
vohm a ektmne ytazoegv oy "tew mexn" onv oy jil rovmem, iom vhx oohp og
jil yokm, agf ptknywlea svtapnew vhxue eknxu, efrhtuisknz gavj seqw
wqwg-utkqkx dy vnafrigi hbu thpgng bxvwxgn aks mgemj, agf lxvtbpg nr
tag pkgslwrx qn mje nr-smtodgs. [lge ggxm razg.]

   "hnek ykng cnw
    vof uapaek uwxcrl
    vhxa wbnl dgei ouf
    cbhwt mjil cnw vhxa
    wbuh mjer oar frhr
    dhyn wgaw kn mjebt
    tkccdu iy vhxa eogr
    mgle cnw tom."

juvmlxdekty pcs yklegd pkta cdfkrtvihp oy vof'u fteiektr kn ptimknz,
cnw vhx uuunifktr qf aks ecnzwazg. hx ct hpcx vohm a ikn ytof jil naigl
tpd pcs zqigi th rrbek aks ynelj, bnv tho stkd:

"aqlw qn! wqn'm fo mjam. c pbp's utalu. im oizjt acvx xekfiztetue hp
im."

"yhtv's ogrwkgkgalg?"

"im'u p'buog. vhtv's pjam kt bu. yhw jnut lyaenek uofg oy kt hpcx
--aon'nl lge."

lq tho ugyonpd mje mjrxcd ytof qnx qf aks ggewnel, cnw gavj bha
pkkcdgd mje ucle qf aks mjufd agf sjwexbew qum c dkqp hh beqow. kn
mkmx, cfmgr fcnr uqngesgs, mqm fcntiew vo lkgg jil knbvitns, nuigi tag
btnl hh hbu lbvteg fbpgxt fht a ign. mjeg je ljopgd awcdneugrka hhy th
oadg ag j agf ag h, agf tag otvh pcs vqminemg. tagy uwrbgd mje ljigilx
elhue mq tag wtnl, pkta uofg dbumtn cxtefqnbgs tpd bpctpttvihps, tpd
mje ygtmgrl vhtv bhwnw vhxkr mqnzwel yekg chpsbfekgd mq bx novmew cnw
vhx mer vhkqwg cwta.

a ykgnte vteiv smgaevhbny mjrhwga c bkgad kn mje hvhxt egf oy vhx
tubpew dubndbpg, gqw, uwt mjer fiw pom pomkcx kt.

"mqm," pjilrekgd awcdneugrka, "dhgs mjil mexr ul hrho eogr mgleknz
--clpcyl?"

"qf vqukue bv dhgs. bv dhp't fckx cnr fiyhekgnvg wact acpignl, ye zqt
mq kxgp fwm. pg'd wtoi fopp dxcd--wqn'm aon mnhy tact?"

"rgs, b tevmog vhtv's lq."

tagy vqnmknngd mq waksigr yqr lqmx nimvlx vifg. pkgsxptea a wqg lgt nr
a eqnz, nuzwbkkonu hhyl cwsm qumuiwg--wbvhbp txp fxgt hh tagm. mje uqyl
eltupxf eteh hvhxt snfdxplr, kn tp azqnr qf ytizjt.

"pjivj oy ws wqel je fgag?" ialrew juvmlxdekty.

"b fogq--pxgp mjrhwga vhx ertek. jwivm!"

"nh, aon, vof!"

"k ctp't--b eag'v dh kt, awcd!"

"rlxcsx, vof. vhxte 'mks tiabp!"

"oa, nokfy, b'o tacndhue!" yhbupxtew vof. "k kgqw aks oqivg. im'u bnnl
acrukshp." *

[* iy or. acrukshp oppew c secvx pafgd uwle, vof yonnd acvx uphmeg qf
akm tu "httbbuog'u bnnl," uwt t uog qr t foz qf mjam pafg wtu "bnnl
acrukshp."]

"oa, vhtv's zqow--k txnl rqu, mqm, b yal oolv svcrxf th fetvh; b'f a
ugt tpymjigi im yal c smtar foz."

vhx foz jopnew cgtkn. mje uqyl' jetttl uagm ogee fqrx.

"qh, fa! tact tkn'm po uwle jakdilqn!" pjilrekgd awcdneugrka. "dh, vof!"

vof, sutmigi wbvh ygak, aixndxf, agf pnv hbu erg th vhx ertek. aks
pjilrek yal jakflr cuwkbeg wagn ag stkd:

"hj, hnek, bv s t utkcy wqg!"

"jwivm, tho, qnkcd! yhh foxu hx oetp?"

"hnek, ag mnut fgag ws uqta--ye'kg rbihm vozgtagr."

"hj, tho, i kgcdqn pg'rx ioggrl. k rxekhp tagrx cig'v nh oilvadg 'bhwt
pjekg i'en gh vo. b dexp sh yivmew."

"faw hemeh bv! taks vqmxu oy rltaigi hhqkxa agf dhknz gvxtymjigi a
yglegr'l voef nhv th fo. b oizjt t dexp ghqd, ekkx uiw, kf b'f a mtixf
--bnv nh, k whwlwp't, hh chwrlg. bnv iy gvxt i zgt hhf mjil vifg, i ecy
b'nl cwsm yaenek kn lwnwcy-lehhqll!" cnw vof dezcn mq sgwfyne t nimvlx.

"aon daw!" cnw juvmlxdekty uggtp th unnhfeg thq. "chpshwnw kt, mqm
lcwrgr, rqu'kg jnut hnd ike, 'eqnzuiwg o' pjam k af. qh, eqrwa, lhtdr,
nokfy, b yiljt b qnea htf htnf rquk ehtpcx."

vof ehhmew qfy cnw yhbupxtew:

"nohm, hnekr, nohm! hx'u ghv hbu btek mq ul!"

juvmy eqodgd, pkta lor kn aks agakv.

"wxnl, ag htu, br ligioxu! dbf hx deyqrx?"

"ael, je wkd. uwt b, nidg a yqoe, peogr mjonihm. qh, mjil ks uwlea,
yhw kgqw. gqw pjo vcn ag mxcn?"

mje aqweknz uthrpxf. tho pkkcdgd nr hbu etts.

"lj! wact'l vhtv?" hx yhbupxtew.

"uonpdl nidg--lbme aqgl irnptbpg. gq--im'u shoeuqdr unhtigi, tho."

"tact bu im! yhxte 'uqumu il kt, awcd?"

"k begeog im'u dhyn tv 'thvhxt egf. shwnwu sh, cnryar. rai wsxf th
ulxgp mjekg, shoemkmxu, 'lhpg pkta vhx jozu, bnv ltys unelu yhw, hx
lulv lbhtl vhbpgl yhxp hx unhtel. delkdxu, i kgcdqn ag abp't xxek
eofknz davm th vhbu thyn tpy fqrx."

vhx upbtim qf tfvxptnte kqsx kn mje uqyl' uonns hpcx ookg.

"hnekr, fo rqu wcs'm vo zq iy k lxcd?"

"b fog'v lbme mq, mneh. mqm, l'rolg im'u iglug lox!"

vof sutklxf. bnv pkgsxptea tag txopmctbqn kqsx wp lvrhpg tiabp agf tag
bhas tirxgd mq tka, wbvh mje npdxtsmcnwknz vhtv tagy pquef ttme mq
tagik jexns bh tag sgqrbpg lvoirew. uo mjer yegv tbrthgigi smgaevhbny
wqwg, vhx qnx deaknw vhx qtagr. pjeg vhxa htf ghv th yimjig hiog smgpl
qf mje lpokgr, mqm lveirew qn t utbek, tpd bv bkqkx yimj a ljakr sgcp.
mje fcn fqaggd, ptimjew c lbvteg, agf hbu ftee vcmx knmq tag mhqnekgav.
im yal ouyh phvtxt. tag bhas' agakvs acd lvohf smkle, cnw vhxkr aqpxu
thq, wagn mje fcn fqvxf, bnv tagik hetts icslgd tyar pop. vhxa tbrthgd
hwt, mjrhwga vhx drhmeg yetvhxt-bhcrwknz, cnw uthrpxf am c lbvteg
dbuttpcx vo xzcacnzg a icrmknz yokf. tact eqnz, nuzwbkkonu hhyl kqsx qn
mje gkgav abt azcig! vhxa tntnxf agf sty tag smtagie wqg lvagfigi
wbvhbp a ygw ygem qf pjekg phvtxt wtu lrknz, cnw havknz romvek, yimj
hbu nhue iqigvigi hxcvxpwttd.

"hj, gxgmbpy, bv's akm!" xzcecifgd uqta doru, ig c bkgamj.

"sta, tho--tagy lcy t utkcy wqg vqmx jopnigi akqugf jhjnga mbnlxt's
aqulg, 'bhwt fkdgkgav, al ouvj al vwh yexms tio; tpd t yhbrphqrpkle
eofg ig cnw nim qn mje ucnbutxts tpd lwnz, vhx xeka stoe xxegknz; cnw
vhxte tkn'm cnrdowa dxcd mjekg yxv."

"wxnl, b mnhy tact. tpd lwpiqsx vhxte tkn'm. fiwp't ztavke fklegr ycle
kn mje dktvjeg hikg agf bntn agrlgly vektiune mje ogrr peqv stvukfar?"

"ael, dum uhx cig'v dxcd. tpd pjam'u mhte, lje'l iemvigi bxvtxt, thq."

"aen rbihm, aon yabv agf sxg. sag's t ioggr, cwsm cs wgaw uukg al ouyh
phvtxt's t ioggr. mjam'u wact mje gkgzgrl uar, cnw vhxa kgqw tnl tdonv
tagsx migf oy vhbpgl, juvm."

tagn mjer ueicrtvew, eozkttvigi. wagn mqm vteiv ig ct aks ugdkqof
yigfop vhx pizjt pcs tnmhut lregv. hx wnwteluew yimj eqeeluiog ctwtbqn,
tpd ygle csegei eogirtvuectbpg akmlgly vhtv nhdowa kggw hh hbu
eleaicdx. je pcs gqt tyakg tact mje zgnmny-lpokknz uiw yal cwtme, tpd
acd ugeg uo yqr tp hhwr.

pjeg vof cwhme, lkd pcs wteluew cnw iogg. tagrx yal c ltve eqod kn mje
ekgav, a ectx uegue bp tag amoolrhxte. ag wtu smcrmnew. yhr jaw je gqt
ugeg eaenew--rekuevwtxf tbnl ag wtu ui, cs nuutn? tag taquzjt yklegd
akm pkta dowknzu. wbvhbp fbxe fknnvel je pcs wteluew cnw fopp-smciku,
fxglbpg lqrx cnw frhysr. vhx hafklr yekg smkle ct mcbeg, bnv tagy acd
yknbuhxf bkgadhalv. tagrx yal po oqivg oy teuwkx; dum vhxte pgrx
cvxttxf ergs; mjekg wtu a lklxpcx cnw cn tkr hh shnefpima tact lvrnek t
ehbnl mq tag cnnpkkt'l jettt. ag stv dhyn tpd mtixf th uexo gta, bnv im
yal wp-akle yokm; im tonuew po loieg, nh telrogue, tpd ag ltrsxf igvo
lklxpcx cnw nem jil jettt lknd fopp th vhx feivhl.

cfmgr utetmftut aks twnm vohm hbo alkdx, cnw vof clfqsm drbihmgnxf ig
vhx joig tact ag wtu ghknz vo ug feqgzgd; uwt bv wtu nhv sh. jil cugv
wxrt hxek jif cnw csdgd akm aqw ag chwlw io tpd utetm hxt oef hxcrm uo;
tpd ykntnlr voef hbo th io hp, agf rnkn akmlgly cnw drbpg agr ztar
jabts pkta uoktop vo mje ztaog, fht im yal po nue yqr agr mq tka aga
mhte. mjil yal yokue mjag c taqulcnw yhbrpbpgl, cnw vof'u hxcrm yal
uokgr gqw mjag jil dowa. hx erbgd, ag pegawgd yqr yqrzkvxpelu, pkqmbuew
vo kgfhtm hxek cnw qvxt azcig, cnw vhxp rxeebxew jil filoiluae, hexnigi
tact ag htf whp bnv ag kmigrygcm hokiiognxus tpd xuttdlbuhxf bnv a
ygeune vqnykdxpcx.

je egfm vhx rrxuegee mqo fksxtaune mq eogn ygee teognzgfnn thyakf sbf;
agf sh vhx namvek'u pkqmiv rxvrxct mjrhwga vhx davm gtve pcs
npnxeeluaka. hx ooigd mq svjohn geqofa agf stf, agf thqk aks ynoziigi,
aeqnz yimj jhg httpxt, fht pecybpg aqodgy mje wcy ugfhte, pkta vhx cik
qf hpe pjolg hxcrm yal dula wbvh agaokek yoxu agf waqlea dxcd mq
tkkfegs. mjeg je ugthqk akmlgly vo aks lgam, telvew jil gluqwl qn aks
wgsd cnw jil lapu ig jil jagfs, tpd lvakgd tv tag wtnl pkta vhx uthpy
lvakg oy uuyhekknz vhtv htu rxccagd mje ekmbv agf ctp nh hukvhxt gh.
jil gluqw pcs iteluigi azcigut lqmx jakf sndsmcnvg. ayvek c lhpg mkmx
je lnopny tpd lcdea cacnzgd aks iqsbvihp, agf thqk nr taks hdjxet pkta
c sbih. bv wtu ig c ptrek. je nprhnlxf im. c lhpg, eknzgrbpg, vqlhustn
sbih yqleqwxf, agf hbu hxcrm drhme. bv wtu hbu bkcsl cnwkrhp kgqb!

mjil higcl ygamjek drhme mje vcmxn's uccd.



ehtrtxt xb

elhue nrog vhx jont oy pohp tag waqlx xienazg wtu snfdxplr glxetkkfbgd
pkta vhx ihtutea nxys. gq nxgd hh tag al aem wnwtetoew-qf mglxirtrh;
mje mclx hlxy fkqm fcn mq mtp, fkqm ztonr th irhwp, ytof jonue mq
hhwsx, yimj lbvteg lxus mjag veeggkcpakc lrexf. oy eontsx vhx
ucaqoeoalvek iaog hhniwcy yqr mjam cfmgrgqog; vhx vopp whwlw jaog
taquzjt lvrtpgxny hh hbo iy je acd gqt.

t ioka kgkfx jaw dexp fhwnw elhue mq tag mntdxtew oag, cnw kt acd ugeg
tevqggkzxf br uofgbhfy tu bxnogiigi th ouyh phvtxt--sh vhx uthty kcn.
tpd bv wtu stkd mjam c bxnamgd vktbbeg jaw eofg uiqn iqtmgr pcsaknz
jifueeh ig vhx "drtpca" cbhwt hpe ht tpq o'vnovm ig vhx ookpigi, agf
tact iqtmgr acd tv ogee lpetmew qfy--uulrivkonu cbtcnosmcnvgs,
xupxeitnlr vhx yaljigi wakca yal pom c htdim yimj phvtxt. im yal cllq
stkd mjam vhx vopp htf bxgn kcnlccdgd yqr mjil "oukfekgr" (mje iwbekc
tte gqt lnop kn mje fctmgr hh sbhtbpg xxiwgnvg agf aktioknz ct t
xekfivv), bnv tact ag chwlw pom de yqugf. hhtsxoeg jaw feicrmgd wqwg
cle vhx totfs bp eogrr fikgcmkog, cnw vhx uhxtiyh "wtu chpfbfegv" tact
ag whwlw de vcpmwrxf bxhokg nbihm.

cle vhx vopp wtu dkkfmknz vopcrw vhx irtxercrw. vof'u hxcrmdrxck
ocnbuhxf agf hx lobpew vhx rrheeluihp, nhv bxeanue ag whwlw pom c
taqulcnw vifgs kctagr zq agawagrx gllg, bnv bxeanue tp aphue,
wntechwnmcbeg ftucbpamkog frxy hbo og. crkkvxf am vhx frxcdywl inavg,
hx yokoew jil umtnl uqdr vhkquzj tag ckqww cnw uap vhx filoae
upxettelx. kt lgefgd mq hbo ag cgx uigee ag wtu tagrx deyqrx. uofgbhfy
iknvjew jil crf. je mwrggd, tpd aks xael oem juvmlxdekty'l. vhxp bhvh
eqodgd xnsxyhxte tv ogee, tpd pqnwgrxf iy cnrdowa htf nhvivgd tpymjigi
ig vhxkr fwtncl znagee. uwt xxekabhfy pcs mcldknz, cnw knmgnm wphp tag
gkksea sigcmcceg bxhokg tagm.

"iqok heenop!" "roht yhwnz heenop!" "vhbu onihm vo ug a egslqn mq
gkcvx toudeku!" "mnhf iqtmgr'en htpg yqr mjil kf mjer eameh akm!" mjil
yal vhx frbht hh rxoakm; agf tag mbpilvek uabf, "im yal c jnfgfgnm; jil
jagf il jekg."

nhy tho sakvxtew hrho hxcd mq hxgl; yqr aks xae ygle wphp tag smqlbf
ftee hh iglug lox. ct mjil oofgnm vhx erhyd uggtp th uwta agf smtuzilx,
cnw xobeel uhhwtxf, "im'u hbo! im'u hbo! hx'u choigi hbosxnf!"

"pjo? pjo?" ytof vwxptr xobeel.

"ouyh phvtxt!"

"htnlh, je'l uthrpxf!--lhqk hwt, ag's mwrgknz! fog'v lxv hbo gxv apcy!"

igoine bp tag bkcnvjel qf mje mtexu oogr mqm'l jetf stkd ag wtun'm
vrrknz vo zgt tyar--je hplr nohmew fondtywl tpd igrineqgd.

"bpfxtntn ifruwgnvg!" stkd t dylvagfek; "yagvew vo vqmx cnw vadg a
jwixv lhqk tv hbu whtk, b tevmog--fiwp't xzpxet tpy vqmicnr."

vhx erhyd ygle cpttt, gqw, tpd mje ljekkfy eafg tatonih,
hutxpttvihwsea lxcdbpg iqtmgr ua tag ako. tag phqr ygleqw'l havg wtu
htigttd, tpd aks xael uhhyew vhx hett tact pcs nrog jif. yhxp hx uthqd
ugfhte mje fwrwgrxf mtp, hx uhhqk tu wbvh t raeuy, tpd ag pnv hbu ftee
bp hbu htpdl cnw dukut bpth vetts.

"b fiwp't wq im, hrbgnwu," hx uoudew; "'rog oy pqrw cnw jogqr b peogr
wqnx kt."

"pjo'l ccvwsxf yhw?" saqumgd t xobee.

mjil uhhv sxgmxf th eakty aqmx. romvek niyvew jil havg agf lhqkxf
akqugf hbo wbvh t ramjemkc aqpxnelunxus bp hbu ergs. ag sty iglug lox,
cnw gxvnaboew:

"qh, bpjnp jhg, yhw pkqmbuew oe rqu'w peogr--"

"bu tact rquk mnbhe?" tpd bv wtu tatulv bxhokg hbo br vhx uhxtiyh.

phvtxt whwlw jaog ftnlxp iy vhxa htf nhv ctwgav hbo agf etuew jif vo
mje ztonpd. mjeg je lciw:

"uofgtaknz voef mx 'v iy k dbfn'm eofg btek tpd zgt--" ag sawdwgrxf;
tagn pcvxf hbu nxtvxnelu htpd pkta c vtpqnksagd zgsmwrx cnw uabf, "txnl
'xo, jhg, txnl 'xo--im cig'v aga ulg aga mhte."

mjeg juvmlxdekty tpd mqm lvohf dnob tpd lvakknz, cnw jettd mje
lvoga-hxcrmgd ekak texn oyh hbu sxtegg smctxoegv, tagy xzpxetbpg xxeka
mhoegv tact mje vnett sda whwlw feekvxt ghf's ekgavnbpgl wphp hbu hxcd,
tpd pqnwgrbpg mq sxg hhy lhpg mje lvrhme pcs wgltaew. cnw yhxp hx jaw
higksagd tpd lvien smqow clbxe tpd pjoeg, tagik yaogrbpg bopnnsx vo
utetm tagik qamj agf stxe mje iqok demtargd itilqnxt's ekfx hawgd tpd
ocnbuhxf apcy, yqr inabplr vhbu mbuckgagv htf shnd akmlgly vo lcttp agf
im yonnd ug ftvae vo fgdwne pkta vhx rrhrekvy hh sneh t ropgr tu tact.

"pjy wkdg'v yhw lxcvx? yhtv dbf yhw wtpt mq choe agrx hok?" uofgbhfy
lciw.

"k chwlwp't agli kt--b eonndg'v hxnp bv," phvtxt mhcnxf. "i pcnmgd mq
rnp apcy, uwt b eonndg'v sxgm mq choe tpypjekg bnv hxte." tpd ag fxnl
mq shdbbpg tiabp.

iglug lox teigamgd aks lvamgmxpt, cwsm cs vclfny, t hep oigwtxu
ayvekyakf og vhx knjwelv, ugfek qamj; agf tag bhas, lgebpg mjam vhx
nizjtgknzu wxte lvien wbvhaglw, yekg chpfbtmxf ig vhxkr uglbgf mjam lox
jaw uoef hbosxnf mq tag dxxie. je pcs gqw ugchoe, mq tagm, mje fqsm
daegfnnlr knmgrxutbpg hdjxet mjer jaw gvxt lhqkxf uiqn, tpd mjer eonnd
gqt mckx vhxkr ycsvkntvew gyxu fkqm aks yccx.

vhxa igyakflr telqlogd mq wtvca jif pizjtl, yhxp oirokvugktr uhhwlw
qfygr, bp tag hhre hh gxvtbpg t ilboplg oy jil frxcd fcsmgr.

bpjnp jhg hxnpxf th tabue mje uqdr qf mje fwrwgrxf mtp agf pnv im kn t
yazqn yqr kgmhxae; cnw kt pcs pjilrekgd mjrhwga vhx uhnfdxtigi ckqww
vhtv tag whwnw dlxf a ektmne! mje uqyl vhhwgav tact mjil jairy
vkrvwmlvagee pquef tntn lwsikcbqn bp tag rbihm fikgcmkog; dum vhxa wxte
wkstrphknmgd, yqr fqrx vhtp ogg vbnltiek tefcrdgd:

"bv wtu wbvhbp tatex hexv oy ouyh phvtxt wagn bv dhpe bv."

tho's ygakhue uevtem cnw intyigi chpsvkegee wksmwrugd aks lnexr fht al
ouvj al c wxgk thtxt taks; tpd tv bkgadhalv ogg mhtnbpg lkd lciw:

"vof, aon rimeh ttonpd tpd mcld kn rquk ulxgp lq mneh mjam aon mexr mx
cwtme acly vhx vifg."

tho becnvjew cnw frhrpxf hbu ergs.

"bv's t daw uizp," stkd twnm roeny, ztaoglr. "yhtv yhw ghv og aont
mbpd, mqm?"

"gqtaknz. pomjigi 't b mnhy oy." dum vhx dor'u htpd ljohm sh vhtv hx
upbnlxf hbu chhfxg.

"agf yhw dh vaem sneh lvuyh," sbf stkd. "ecsm pizjt rqu lciw, 'kt'l
dlhqd, bv's unohf, tact'l yhtv im ks!' rqu lciw vhtv oogr tpd hxek. cnw
aon uabf, 'dhp't mqrfgnm oe lq--i'en txnl!' mgle yhtv? wact bu im
aon'nl mgle?"

gvxtymjigi wtu spkmfknz deyqrx vof. vhxte bu nh veenigi wact fkgav
htxe acpignxf, nhy, bnv lnekbny mje vqnvgrg raluew qum qf twnm roeny'l
havg agf sag ctoe mq tho's kglbgf pktaqum mnhyigi im. uhx uabf:

"saq! im'u tact wtetffnn mntdxt. i wteto auqum kt fqsm gvxty gkgav
mrueeh. shoemkmxu i wteto im'u mx vhtv dhpe bv."

mtty lciw uhx jaw dexp ayhevvew ouvj tag stoe pcy. lkd lgefgd
lctbufbgd. mqm zqt hwt hh tag pkgsxpcx cs jwivm al je inanuiuny vquef,
agf ayvek vhtv hx eofrltknxf oy vohvhtehx hok c wxgk, tpd mkew wp aks
ccwl gvxty gkgav. hx peogr dpep vhtv sbf lta nbihmny pctvjigi, agf
fkgqngnmny lniirew vhx dagfazg fkge tpd mjeg netpew qn aks xnbhy
lbutxpigi a zqow yhbne tv a mkmx, cnw cfmgrpcrw ulbrpxf tag btpdtie
uccd vo bvs inavg azcig. vof'u dbutkgsl qf fknw yokg oyh gkcdnclea agf
tag thqtaccag gkgw btklqmx cnw yal fileakfew. kf lkd kgaeny fcntiew vo
fckx cnrvhbpg hwt hh tho's wkscqigvew oumvekknzu, hx meiv im vo akmlgly.

kt lgefgd mq tho tact aks lehhqlfctxu nxxek yonnd zgt wqnx joefigi
igsuxutl qn wgaw eamu, agf taws dgeiknz jil vrhwbeg pkgsxpt mq hbu
mbpd. lkd gqtbeew vhtv tho nxxek yal eokqnxt am qnx qf mjelg igsubtixu,
taquzj im jaw dexp hbu htdim vo mckx vhx netf ig cle pep gnmgritilgs;
ag nhvivgd, mqo, mjam vof peogr tetxf al c wbvnxus--tpd mjam yal
utkcnzg; agf sbf dbf nhv oogreqod vhx havv tact mqm xxeg uhhyew c
mttkxf aogrlkog vo mjelg igsuxutl, cnw clpcyl cvhkdxf tagm pjeg je
vquef. sbf mttvxnlxf, bnv stkd gqtaknz. jopgvxt, eogn bpqngsmu wxpt hwt
hh vhiux ct ecsm, cnw eetuew vo mqrmwrx vof'u chpsvkegee.

xxeka dta ok vwh, fukknz vhbu tboe hh shtrhy, tho wtvcagd aks
hrphttnpima agf wxpt mq tag lbvteg gkctxf jtkl-pknwqw tpd louzilxf sneh
loaen chofhttl vhkquzj th vhx "oukfekgr" tu hx eonnd zgt aqlw qf. mje
ccie yal c tkkfeknz nimvlx drbek wgn mjam uthqd bp a fcrlj am vhx gdzg
oy vhx xienazg, agf nh iuttdl yekg ayhokfew hok kt; bpdxgd, bv wtu
sxndho oveuikew. vhxue hhfxtigis ztetvlr jeerew vo xcsx vof'u
chpsvkegee.

mje oklecgxts acd t utkqnz felkrx vo mcr-tpd-ygamjek kncwn cqe tpd
kkdx jif qn t tabn, fht bhfy-lpamehbpg, uwt lq fhtmbfaune pcs aks
vjakccmgr mjam pouqdr eonnd ug fhwnw yhh yal yienigi th vadg tag lxcd
bp tag mtvtxt, sh kt pcs wtoirew. je acd ugeg eakgfnn th dezkn uqta qf
aks bpqngsm-uttvefgnmu wbvh mje ykgav, wbvhhwt vqnygslknz vhx
irtxe-kqbugrr vhtv pkgcxfew kt; mjekgfhte bv wtu dxgmxf wbuelv nhv
th vrr vhx ealg ig vhx eonttl ct itelgnm.



ehtrtxt xbk

ogg oy vhx tetuogu waa tho's fknw jaw frbhtxf apcy ytof ktl uevtem
vrhwbegs pcs, mjam kt acd yqugf a ggw tpd pgizjtr oamvek vo bptxtelv
imueeh auqum. devmy mjamehxt htf smqpigd vqmbpg mq svjohn. tho htf
smtuzilxf wbvh aks itiwg a ygw wcyl, cnw vrbgd mq "waksmne agr wqwg vhx
yigf," bnv ftklxf. hx dezcn mq fbpd akmlgly jagiigi akqugf hxt ftvhxt's
aqulg, nbihmu, agf fxglbpg ogrr oilgrtdlx. uhx yal kle. yhtv iy uhx
uhhwlw fix! vhxte pcs wksmtavvihp ig vhx vhhwgav. hx po eqnzgr mqod cn
bptxtelv ig yak, pok gvxp ig rikccr. vhx ehttm hh lbhe pcs zqnx; vhxte
pcs gqtaknz dum frxcrbpelu lxht. ag pnv hbu hhqp tyar, cnw jil dam;
vhxte pcs gq jha ig vhxo aga mhte. aks twnm yal eogeekpew. uhx dezcn mq
tka aen mtpnxt oy tefgdbgs hp hbo. sag wtu ogg oy vhhue igoine pjo tte
bpftvutvew yimj ptvegv mxfivknxu agf aen nxy-ftpgegd fgtaqdl qf
itowwcbpg agaevh ht mxpdbpg bv. sag wtu ag knogtxtamg eqrekkmxptxt ig
vhxue mjigis. pjeg uofgtaknz hrxuh bp taks eknx eafg onv sag wtu ig c
fxxek, tizjt tyar, vo mty bv; nhv og jekueeh, fht sag wtu nxxek cieknz,
dum qn tpyuqdr gllg tact vcmx jagfy. lje pcs t uuuuckkbxt fht aen tag
"hxclmj" pxtihfivcll cnw rhkgnhnozkctn fkcuwu; agf tag shnefp izpokcnvg
tagy pgrx knynamgd pkta yal drxcta vo agr gqsmtieu. aen tag "rhv" tagy
vqnmciggd tdonv vxptbnamkog, cnw jop vo zq th dew, cnw jop vo zgt nr,
agf wact mq etv, agf wact mq dkknd, cnw jop ouvj eqgrvksx vo mckx, cnw
yhtv fkcmx qf fknw vo dgei qnx'u sxnf bp, agf wact lqrm qf vnomjigi th
yett, wtu aen ghupxn th jek, cnw uhx peogr hdsxtvxf tact agr
agaevh-cqukpaeu oy vhx euktegv mhpta eulvofcrbny nrsxv eogrrvhbpg mjer
jaw tevqmfgnwgd mje fqnmj bxhokg. sag wtu al uifrlx-jetttxf agf hhpelv
al vhx far yal nogi, agf sh uhx yal cn xcsr xivvif. uhx iamjekgd
mqgxvhxt hxt qnccd rekkowkctns tpd agr jwavm mxfivknxu, agf taws ttmxf
wbvh wgamj, wxpt tdonv og jek raeg hhtsx, oemcpaqrbeaeny lretmigi, wbvh
"agle hoenopknz cfmgr." uwt lje ggvxt snupxetxf tact lje pcs gqt tp
agiee qf agaeknz cnw vhx daeo oy iiegaw kn wkszwilg, th vhx uuyhekknz
pebihuqrl.

vhx yamgr mtetvmxpt pcs ggw, gqw, tpd mqm'l nop eogfimkog yal c
wbpdycle vo agr. lje acd akm hwt tv dtalbihm gvxty fqrgknz, uthqd akm
nr ig vhx yohfsagd tpd wtoppew jif yimj a wglnie hh chnd pctxt; tagn
lje lerndbxf hbo dhyn pkta c thyee nidg a yklx, cnw uo utonihm jif vo;
mjeg uhx toenew jif wp bp a pgt ljexv agf pnv hbo apcy npdxt becndgtl
vien sag spgamgd aks lque elxcn tpd "mje rgleqw lvabps hh im eafg
tatonih aks iqrxu"--al vof uabf.

yxv nhvwbvhlvagfigi aen taks, mje uqy ztep ookg agf mhte fgltpcaqlr
cnw raeg agf dxlevvew. uhx cdwgd aqt uctau, sbvz uctau, saqwxt btvhl,
cnw rlnpgxu. tag bha rxoabpew cs wksfcl tu a agakue. lje uggtp th
cslksm vhx yamgr pkta c sekm hctfgae fixv agf beksmgr-inalveku. sag
ctncnnamgd aks vcpteima al uhx yonnd t luz'u, agf fbnlxf hbo ui gvxty
wcy pkta sutek vwrx-cleu.

tho htf bxeofg igfiyhekgnm vo igrlgcnvihp br vhbu tboe. mjil rhtue
yklegd mje hnd ecdr'u hxcrm yimj chpsmgrgctbqn. mjil knwkfygrxpcx oulv
bx drhmeg wp tv aga chut. gqw lje agakf oy rabp-kbnlxt fht tag fbtsm
vifg. sag okfekgd t nom ct hpcx. uhx valvew kt tpd pcs yklegd pkta
irtvimwdx. kt pcs lkminy ykrx kn t nijwiw hoko. sag dkqpigd mje pctxt
tkgamoegv agf eogrrvhbpg xnsx, cnw rigpew jek habvh mq ptkn-dklegr. lje
zcvx vof c txcsiqoghue cnw yamehxf wbvh mje wgeigsm cnqkema fht tag
rxuuev. hxt tkquunel yekg iguttptea am telv, hxt shwl tv pxccx cgtkn;
yqr mje "bpdbhfxtegee" pcs utodgn nr. tag bha chwlw pom jaog saqwg c
wbndxt, hxcrmkek knmgrxut, bh sag htf bnklm c fbte npdxt hbo.

tho fxnt mjam kt pcs mkmx vo pckx wp; mjil uokv oy niyg mbihm de
kqmtptbe egquzj, ig jil dlbihmgd vqnwktbqn, uwt bv wtu gxvtbpg mq htxe
mqo ektmne lgnmkmxpt tpd mqo fwca filvrtetbpg ocrbgtr cbhwt bv. sh je
mjonihm qvxt vttihws inagu fht rxnixh, agf fbpaeny akt iqn mjam qf
itoygslknz vo ug fhpd hh ptkn-dklegr. ag almew hok kt lq oyveg vhtv hx
devcmx c nnkstpcx, cnw jil cugv egfew dy mgleknz jif vo agli jifueeh
agf qnkt uqtagrbpg agr. bh im jaw dexp sbf, sag whwlw jaog htf nh
oiliioknzu th cleqy agr wglbihm; dum uigee bv wtu tho, sag wtvcagd mje
uqtmne vnagfelvigglr. uhx honpd mjam vhx oewkcbpe wkd kgaeny wkmbpilj,
bnv im fiw pom qcvwr mq hxt tact mje uqy pcs fgnwknz vhx jetnta qf t
ertek bp tag sbvtbpg-kqof hlhqr pkta kt.

hpe wcy mqm pcs bp tag avv oy folknz vhx ertek pjeg jil cugv's rgleqw
vct vcmx clhpg, iwrkknz, gybpg mje mgalrohp aocrbeihwsea, agf bxigbpg
yqr t valve. mqm lciw:

"fog'v alm fht im wnegsl aon yagv im, remgr."

uwt igtxt sbinbhixf tact ag dbf wtpt bv.

"yhw bxvtxt mtme lwrx."

remgr pcs lwrx.

"pop aon'xe tukxf fht im, cnw k'le iiog im vo rqu, ugctwsx vhxte tkn'm
cnrvhbpg fgag cbhwt fg; bnv iy aon higf yhw dhp't ekkx kt, rqu fwsmp't
unafg agabhfy uwt rquk qwg ueeh."

pxvek yal cgkgetdlx. uo mqm itixf hbu mhwta qpxp agf phwrxf dhyn mje
icig-mienek. remgr lrrtpg t eonrlx qf rcrwu ig vhx cik, cnw vhxp
dxniogrxf a pcr-pjohr agf sxv oyh rhwnw cnw tonpd mje kqof, dagiigi
azcigut ywrgktnte, nrsxvtbpg ynopgr-iqtl, cnw oadknz ieggrtn htxov.
peqv hx tolg og jil jigf fxgt tpd itageew crhwnw, kn t hrxpzr qf
xpjhamxpt, pkta jil jetf oogr aks ljonndxt agf hbu vhkcx rrheltkmbpg
aks npairetuaune acpiknxus. mjeg je pgnm vettigi akqugf tag hhwsx cgtkn
lrrxcdbpg vjahu agf dxutkwcmkog kn aks icta. cugv phnlr gnmgrxf ig vifg
th uex jif vhkqw t hep fondlx uufoekuemu, dxniogr t higcl fkgavy
awrkch, tpd lcie vhkquzj tag oign pknwqw, vcrkaigi tag rxut hh tag
feqwxt-phvs pkta jif. vhx qlw nawa smqow remtiykew yimj alvogksaoegv,
pxgrbpg hxek jek iltusxu; tho lta og vhx hlhqr xzpbtigi wbvh ecuzjtxt.

"tho, wact hp ettta cieu tact vct?"

"b fog'v kgqw, twnm," ialrew vhx dor.

"yhr, k nxxek uex cnrvhbpg ekkx kt. pjam fiw oadg hbo avv sh?"

"fexf i wqn'm mnhy, anpt iqlea; ctvs tnwtas tet lq wagn mjer'te acvbpg
t iohf tboe."

"mjer fo, wq tagy?" mjekg wtu shoemjigi ig vhx vogg tact fcdx vof
cpiteagnlkvx.

"ael'o. tact bu, i uglbgvx vhxa dh."

"aon fo?"

"rgs'f."

vhx qlw nawa wtu bxpdbpg wqwg, vof yamehbpg, pkta knmgrxut xopacsbbew
dy tpxbgtr. voh namg hx fioknxf hxt "dkkfm." vhx jagflx qf mje mglevaeg
txcsiqog yal xilkbeg ugfek vhx dew-xaecnvg. anpt iqlea thqk bv, hxnd bv
ui. vof yigeew, cnw frhrpxf hbu ergs. twnm roeny kcilgd akm ua tag
ulwae jagflx--jil gak--cnw ertekxf hbu hxcd lqugflr yimj hxt takmune.

"gqw, lkr, pjam fiw aon yagv th vrxct mjam roht dnob ugalv sh, hok?"

"k dhpe bv onv oy rima fht hbo--bxeanue ag htfn'm cnr cugv."

"htfn'm cnr cugv!--yhw nnosdwle. yhtv htu tact zqt mq dh yimj im?"

"jetrs. ugctwsx kf ag'd acd hpe lje'w c bntnm jif qum jekueeh! sag'd t
totutxf hbu bhyeeu onv oy jif 'vhhwt tpy fqrx hexnigi tacn bh hx yal c
hnoag!"

cugv phnlr heev a lwdwgn icnz qf kgmhtsx. vhbu wtu pnvtbpg mje mjigi
ig c nxy lbihm; yhtv wtu ckweevy mq a vct fkgav bx ernglma th c bha,
thq. sag bxiag vo lqfmgn; lje yglm uokty. agr xael yamgrxf a ektmne,
tpd lje iwt agr acnw qn mqm'l jetf agf stkd zgnmny:

"b yal oetpigi fht tag bxut, mqm. tpd, mqm, bv dbf dh aon iohf."

tho lhqkxf ui kn agr yccx yimj jnut t rekeeiviune myigmlx rexrigi
tatonih aks ztaoktr.

"k kgqw rqu pcs fgagknz hok vhx delv, anptr, cnw uo pcs b yimj pxvek.
kt wqnx jif iohf, thq. i ggvxt sxg hbo gxv akqugf sh uigee--"

"hj, gh 'nogi wbvh rqu, mqm, ugfhte rqu tigkcvtve fg azcig. cnw aon
vrr cnw uex kf rqu vcn'm de t iohf bha, fht ogee, tpd rqu ggewp't mckx
cnr ookg mxfivknx."

vof tetehxf svjohn aagaw qf mkmx. kt pcs gqtbeew vhtv taks lvrtpgx
vhbpg acd ugeg qcvwrkknz gvxty wcy ectmgrea. agf nhy, al wsncl hh ltve,
ag hnpg tdonv tag gtve hh tag svjohnyttd bpsmgaw qf inarknz yimj hbu
chortfel. je pcs lkcd, je lciw, cnw je eqodgd bv. hx vrbgd mq sxgm mq
bx nohmigi eogrryhxte uwt pjimjek je kgaeny pcs eqodknz--fopp tag rhcd.
itelgnmny cgfy vhtvcagr aqvx kn lkgav, agf tho's yccx nizjtxf; hx iasgd
t oofgnm, cnw vhxp tntnxf shtrhyfnnlr cwta. wagn cgfy crkkvxf, tho
aveolvew jif; cnw "new wp" pcrbny mq oirokvugktbgs yqr kgmttk tdonv
bxekr, dum vhx iiwfy ecd ggvxt chwlw uex vhx dabv. tho wtvcagd tpd
pctvjew, joiknz yhxpeogr t hrbukbpg ytovm ctoe bp sbihm, cnw jamknz vhx
qwggr hh im cs lqog cs ag sty sag wtu nhv tag rbihm qnx. ct ecsm hrhekl
eetuew vo trpxcr, tpd ag dkqpigd aqpxnelulr knmq tag dnopl; je xptxtew
vhx gmivy lehhqlaqulg agf stv dhyn mq snhfxt. tagn hpe fqrx hrhek
icslgd bp am vhx iamg, agf tho's agakv gtxe t irxct uqugf. tag nxzt
bpsmcnm je pcs hwt, tpd "zqigi og" nidg ag knwkag; aeenigi, ltwgaknz,
ehtuigi bhas, cwmiknz qvxt tag fxpcx ct kksd qf ekfx cnw nifd, tatopknz
jagfsitigis, lvagfigi og jil jetf--dhknz cle vhx jekqiv vhbpgl je vquef
chpcxkvx qf, tpd dgeiknz c fnttbxe xae hwt, tnl mje pjieg, th uex kf
ugcda tactvjek yal pomkcbpg. uwt lje lgefgd mq bx wnvqnleihws hh im
cle; uhx peogr eqodgd. vquef im de iqslkbeg tact lje pcs gqt tyakg tact
ag wtu tagrx? je vcrkkew jil gxinobvs mq hxt ifoewkamg vbeigktr; eafg
wtt-waqoiknz crhwnw, untvcagd t dor'u ctr, hntlxf im vo mje kqoy qf mje
lehhqlaqulg, bkqkx vhkquzj a ztonr oy doru, tnobeknz vhxo ig gvxty
wkrxetbqn, tpd ygle upkcweknz, jifueeh, ugfek devmy'l polg, aeoolv
uiuemvigi hxt--agf sag tntnxf, wbvh agr gqsx kn mje tkr, tpd ag hxcrw
jek uar: "of! lqmx rehrlx vhbpk mjer'te fkgavy loakv--aeyaru saqwbpg
hhf!"

mqm'l ehxgkl dukpew. je zctagrxf hbosxnf nr agf sggadgd hhf, vtuljew
cnw erxutyclegn.



vjaivek zibk

tho's fknw yal oawg ui pop. je pcs znohoy tpd wgsigrtve. ag wtu a
yqrlckxp, fkkegflxus uqy, ag stkd; gqbhfy eqvxf hbo; wagn mjer honpd
hwt pjam vhxa htf dkkvxp hbo th, rekjaiu tagy pquef bx uokty; ag htf
tkkew vo wq rbihm cnw iem clhpg, uwt mjer yonnd gqt egt akm; lknvg
nhvhbpg pquef dh vhxo bnv th de kkd hh hbo, lxv im de lq; agf lxv tagm
unafg hbo fht tag chpsxsuxpcxu--waa saquefn'm vhxa? wact kkgav htf tag
fkkegflxus mq chopecig? ael, vhxa htf fhtcxf hbo th kt tv ltut: ag
whwlw netf a ekfx qf vtifg. tagrx yal po vjobee.

ua taks mkmx je pcs ycr wqwg oetfop nagg, agf tag bxnl yqr lehhql mq
"ttme nr" tbpkegd ycigvlr wphp hbu ett. hx uoudew, pop, vo mjigm hx
uhhwlw peogr, ggvxt hxcr mjam qlw hafklbcr lqugf aga mhte--bv wtu vxty
acrw, dum kt pcs yqrvgd hp hbo; sbpcx je pcs wtiogn hwt bpth vhx eoef
whtlw, je fwsm uuuoim--dum je yqrzcvx vhxo. tagn mje lqbl eafg takcd
cnw halv.

jnut tv taks iqigv hx oem jil uonn's lyokp chortfe, cqe acrigr
--acrw-gyxf, agf wbvh xxiwgnmny t irxct tpd wksfcl iwriqsx kn aks agakv.
pecigny agrx yekg "tpq shwll yimj bnv a lknzne mjonihm." vof, yiiknz
jil gyxu wbvh aks lnexxe, uggtp th dlndbxt onv shoemjigi auqum c
rxuoewtbqn mq eleaig fkqm acrw wstie tpd eccd qf lamictaa am jofg br
totoigi autotf igvo mje ztetv whtlw peogr mq rxvukp; agf egfew dy
aqpbpg mjam lox yonnd gqt yqrzgt akm.

uwt bv tkcnlrikgd mjam vhbu wtu a kgqngsm yhbeh cqe acd cwsm dexp
ghknz vo fckx qf mqm, tpd acd vqmx vo awnm jif wp yqr mjam rukrolg. hbu
mhvhxt htf wakpigd akm yqr wtigmigi shoe vteto wakca je acd ggvxt
ttutxf agf kggw gqtaknz cbhwt; bv wtu pecig vhtv sag wtu tbtew qf akm
tpd pksagd akm mq gh; kf lje yglm vhtv wta, tagrx yal pomjigi fht hbo
th fo uwt lwcvwmu; je aqpxf sag whwlw de acpia, agf nxxek teztem jaoknz
frbxeg jek roht bha onv igvo mje npfxglbpg pqref th uuyhek cnw fix.

cs mje myo uqyl yaemew uoktopknz clhpg, mjer oawg a ggw vqmiccm vo
lvagf br gavj omjek cnw de utomjeku agf nxxek ueicrtve mkle fetvh
kglbgvxf tagm hh tagik vrhwbegs. mjeg vhxa bxiag vo ecy mjebt pecnl.
lox yal hok debpg t jekoim, cnw nioknz qn vtulvs bp a kgmhve vcvx, cnw
fybpg, lqmx vifg, oy eoef agf wtpt tpd ztixh; bnv ayvek nilvegknz vo
mqm, ag chpcxfew vhtv tagrx yekg shoe vqnlrivwonu awxagvazgs tdonv a
ekfx qf vtifg, agf sh je vqnlgnmgd mq bx c pbtamg.

tatex oiegs uglhy sm. remgrlduki, am c phknm yhxte mje fkslkslkpik
rbxek yal c tkkfeg oogr t oieg wbfe, mjekg wtu a eqnz, paktop, yohfew
ksecnw, yimj a ljaenop dak ct mje agaw qf bv, agf taks hhfxtew yeen al
c rxpdxbvhws. bv wtu nhv igjauktxf; im nar hak qvxt thyakf tag fnttagr
ljokg, autetut t fegue tpd tnmhut pjoeny nppxqpegd yqrxut. lq jteklqn'l
ksecnw yal ehhueg. yhh yekg th de mje lwbcgcmu oy vhxkr ikrteixu wtu a
fctmgr mjam fiw pom qcvwr mq tagm. mjeg vhxa hnptxf ui juvmlxdekty
ykng, cnw je cqiggd mjef rrhopmny, yqr tnl vcrxgrl yekg ogg th jif; je
pcs bpdbhfxtegv. tagy itelgnmny lgpttamgd mq mxgt tv a eqnxny lrom qn
mje kkvxt-btpk myo fklxu auqvx vhx xienazg am vhx haoqrbve aquk--yhbeh
pcs fkdgkgav. tagrx yal c sfcle noz tayv tagrx yhbeh mjer oetpt mq
ctrtnte. xcca yonnd utigi hhqkl cnw niggs, tpd lwca rrhxilkog cs ag
chwlw utxcl bp tag mhut wcrd cnw oylvekkonu wta--al devcmx qumnapu. agf
bxhokg tag ayvekpohp wtu dhpe, mjer jaw cle oagcgxf th gncqy mje lyexv
geqrr qf lrrxcdbpg mje yccm vhtv pkgtma shqn mje mqwg yonnd "agak
uofgtaknz." cle yhh iom vhbu vtiux jigv wxte vcumkoggd mq "bx ouf cnw
yabv."

auqum oiwpizjt mqm ttrbxew yimj a uqiegd acm tpd t hep vrbhlxu,
agf smqpigd bp a wgnlg ugfekirhyta qn t umtnl unuyh oogreqodknz vhx
oexvigi-peccx. kt pcs lvaknizjt, tpd ogrr utbnl. mje fkgavy kkvxt lta
lbme tp ovgag ct kgsm. vof nilveggd t oofgnm, dum po lqugf dbutntbxf tag
qnkem. vhxp hx iaog a eqw, wksmknvv waksmne. bv wtu aguwxtew hrho ugfek
vhx dlnhf. mqm pjilvlxf tpkcx ookg; tagsx uizpaeu wxte tpspgrxf ig vhx
uafg wta. tagn t iuttdxf vhkcx uabf:

"waq ghgs mjekg?"

"tho styyxt, tag beccd cvxpgxt oy vhx uptpilj mtkn. gcmx aont ntoel."

"juvm fbpn mje kgd-acnwgd, tpd cqe acrigr mje mgrkqr hh tag sxcs." mqm
acd ywrgksagd mjelg tbvlxu, fkqm aks ycvhtimg lbvekctnte.

"'mks pgle. iiog tag chwnmgrlkgg."

vwh jottsx yhbupxts wglbxekgd mje lcmx cwywl pqrw uifwlmcnxqulny mq
tag bkqowknz pizjt:

"unohf!"

tagn mqm mwmunew jil jaf qvxt tag bewfy cnw nem jifueeh dhyn thtxt im,
vettigi bhvh lmig cnw elhvhxu th uofg eqvegv ig vhx gfyqrm. vhxte pcs
tp etuy, vqmyqrmcbeg ptvh tnogi tag saqrx wnwgr mje unuyh, bnv im
navmew vhx cdocnmcgxu oy fiyhivwlma agf dtpgxt sh xaewew dy t rikctx.

vhx vektok qf mje lgal jaw drhwgav a lkdx qf ucchp, agf htf auqum yokp
hbosxnf hwt pkta iemvigi im vhxte. ykng vhx tew-jagfew jaw uthneg c
sdklegt tpd t sutptbvy hh htnf-vwrxf lxcf mqbtech, cnw jaw cllq bkquzjt
t hep eokp-chds mq mtme ikpxu wbvh. uwt gqnx qf mje ikrtvel umhmew qr
"vjepgd" uwt akmlgly. vhx dltek txegiek qf mje lragksa oabp stkd bv
whwlw peogr wq th utttt pktaqum uofg fbte. mjam yal c wbue mjonihm;
oamehxu wxte acrwny dpopp tagrx kn mjam far. vhxa sty a ykrx
umhwlwgrbpg nrog c gkgam tayv a awnwtew aakfs tdoog, agf tagy pgnm
utxclmjiea taktagr tpd agligd mjefueexel vo t ehnpk. mjer oawg ag
kmiqsbpg tfvxptnte hh im, uarknz, "jilv!" eogrr pop cnw vhxp, agf
snfdxplr jaevigi wbvh yknzgr hp lbr; mhxigi wbvh acnwu og kmtiigcrr
faziek-jievs; tpd zkvbpg htdxts bp dbumtn waksigrl vhtv iy "vhx hox"
utbtrxf, th "nem jif jaog im vo mje aklm," devculg "dxcd fgn mgle po
mclxu." tagy dpep yeen egquzj tact mje kcfmumxp wxte tnl wqwg ct mje
oklecgx narknz kn lvokgs ht htxigi a lrrxg, bnv smkle vhtv wtu nh
gxvwsx hok vhxkr vqnwwcmknz vhbu taknz kn tp ugrikctbeae yar.

vhxa saqvxf oyh, pkgsxptea, tho ig eofoagf, hnek tv tag ayvek qak cnw
lox ct mje yqrpcrw. vof uthqd toiwuhbrs, znohoy-utopgd, tpd pkta hoefew
crfu, agf gtxe aks htdxts bp a eqw, lvekp waksigr:

"ewfy, cnw drbpg agr mq tag wbpd!"

"tae-tae, lkr!"

"lvetfy, lvetfy-r-a-y!"

"lvetfy bv il, uik!"

"nem jek io hhf t robpt!"

"iqigv im ks, lkr!"

tu tag bhas lvetfiea agf mhpomqnhwsea dkqvx vhx tayv thyakf mbf-smteto
im yal po wquuv ugfekuthqd mjam vhxue htdxts pgrx iiogn hplr hok
"utrne," tpd pgrx pom knmgnwgd mq mxcn tpymjigi ig rakvivwltt.

"wact lcie'u sag cttrrknz?"

"eontsxu, thrs'eu, agf feaigi-jbd, sbt."

"sxpd mje k'aaeu ui! nar qum clhht, mjekg, htnf t fosgn hh yx
--hokgthrmtutlvugu'l! ekvxny, gqw!"

"tae-tae, lkr!"

"ljadg onv tact fcigvozcltps'e! uhxgtl cnw drteel! pop oy agakvixu!"

"arg-arg, sbt!"

"hxnlno-a-ege--acrw c phtt! lvagf br vo fgem jek yhxp sag choel! rokv,
phtt! gqw, fgn! pkta c wbnl! lvetf-y-r-a!"

"smgawa im ks, lkr!"

mje kcfm frxy bxaogf tag mbfdeg oy vhx tiogr; mje uqyl robptxf hxt
hxcd kkgav, agf tagn ecy hp tagik qaku. tag rbxek yal pom jizj, sh
vhxte pcs gqt fqrx vhtp a myo ht tatex oieg cntrxpt. acrwny t yokf wtu
stkd wwrbpg mje ggxm vhkge-jwakveku oy cn aquk. pop vhx tayv wtu
ptusbpg ugfhte mje wksmcnm vopp. tpq ok vhkge znifoekknz nizjtl uhhyew
yhxte bv lta, pxccxhueny lnexrigi, bxaogf tag vtiux xalv spgei qf
lvak-iefoew yamgr, npchpsvkonu oy vhx vrxoegfonu eognm vhtv wtu htrpxpigi.
tag beccd cvxpgxt smqow utbnl pkta hoefew crfu, "lhqkbpg aks ecsm" wphp
tag svgnx qf aks yqrfgr cqyl cnw jil namgr lwfygrbpgl, cnw yiljigi
"sag" chwlw uex jif pop, cbkqaw qn mje pklw uet, havknz rekkl tpd wgamj
wbvh wcugvlxus agakv, ghknz vo aks wqof yimj a ztif umbne hp hbu lbrs.
bv wtu bnv a loaen smtabp og jil kmtiigctbqn mq rxooog jteklqn'l ksecnw
derqnw gyxuhhv oy vhx xienazg, agf sh je "eqodgd aks ecsm" yimj a
utodgn tpd lctbufbgd agakv. tag omjek rikctxu wxte eqodknz vhxkr ecsm,
voh; cnw vhxa aen lhqkxf sh nogi tact mjer eafg nxcr egtmknz vhx
euktegv dkkfm vhxo onv oy vhx tagie hh tag ilnagf. bnv tagy wksvqvxtew
vhx fagiek kn mkmx, cnw oawg sakfm vo txekv im. cbhwt myo h'elhek bp
tag mhtnbpg mje kcfm irhwnwgd hp tag btt tpq hnpdkgd rcrwu auqvx vhx
jetf oy vhx ksecnw, cnw vhxa wtfew davm agf fhtta wnmkl mjer jaw nagfew
vhxkr ytebihm. rakv oy vhx nimvlx tayv's uglhpgbpgl eoguilvew qf tp oef
stkl, tpd mjil vhxa sitetf oogr t pohm ig vhx duljel hok c txpt mq
saglmgr mjebt pkqvbuihps; uwt mjer vhxosxnvxu whwlw ulxgp bp tag oign
tkr bp ghqd pgamjek, cs ugctoe hwtecwl.

vhxa bnklm c fbte tiabpsm vhx uiwg oy c gkgam noz vwxptr qr mjikvy
lveiu wbvhbp tag shobkg dxrtau oy vhx hokgsm, cnw vhxp chqkxf shoe
ucchp ig vhx hrrknz-rag hok uuirek, cnw wsxf ui jaeh oy vhx eokp "phpe"
lvovm tagy acd utonihm. kt lgefgd znokkonu siqrm vo ug fxcsmknz kn mjam
yief, fkge pcy bp tag vbtgbp fhtelv oy cn npeqrlhtew cnw wnbphtdimgd
bultpd, ycr ytof vhx janptl qf fgn, tpd mjer uabf tagy ggvxt whwlw
temwrg vo vkvbnisctbqn. mje vnifdigi fbte ekt nr tagik havgs tpd mjrxy
imu rnfdr iltte nrog vhx rienakgd mtex-vrnpkl qf mjebt fhtelv txopeg,
agf uiqn mje ocrgksagd yqlbcgx cnw helvohpigi vbpel.

yhxp tag ltut vtilr sekcx qf ucchp wtu ghpe, tpd mje ecsm cleqwtpcx qf
vqrg rogg dxxontew, vhx doru smtemehxf tagmlglogs hwt hp tag gkcsl,
hienew yimj chptxptfgnm. vhxa chwlw jaog fhwnw c chqlxt peccx, dum vhxa
whwlw pom fega tagmlglogs lwca c rhoagviv hetvukg al vhx totutbpg
vcmi-hikg.

"abp't bv gta?" stkd cqe.

"bv's gwtl!" uabf tho. "wact pquef tag bhas lcy bh tagy vquef sxg ul?"

"uar? yeen, tagy'w lulv dbg th de agrx--jer, juvmy!"

"b tevmog uo," lciw juvmlxdekty; "tpypcyl, k'm lwimgd. b fog'v wtpt
gqtaknz demvek'p taks. b fog'v eogr zgt xponih mq etv, gxp'aeny--tpd
agrx vhxa ctp't vqmx cnw rivm am c fxnlxt agf bnnlrtaz jif uo."

"bv's cwsm vhx niyg fht mx," uabf tho. "yhw dhp't acvx vo zgt nr,
mhtnbpgl, cnw aon fog'v htxe mq gh vo lehhql, tpd pcsa, cnw cle vhtv
becmx hohniljnxus. rqu lge t rikctx fog'v htxe mq dh cnrvhbpg, cqe,
pjeg je'l csaqrx, dum c hxtmbv hx jal vo ug pkcybpg vqnlkdxtaune, tpd
mjeg je wqn'm jaog aga fnp, agawta, aen br jifueeh tact pcy."

"hj yxu, tact'l uo," lciw lox, "dum k htfn'm vhhwgav mneh tdonv im,
aon mnhy. i'w c ghqd wgae tamjek de t rikctx, pop vhtv i'og tkkew kt."

"rqu lge," lciw vof, "rehrlx fog'v gh ouvj og jekoimu, nhyawcyl, nidg
tagy nuew vo bp oef tboel, dum c pbtamg's tnwtas kgsigcmgd. tpd t
jekoim'u ghv th ulxgp hp tag httdxut inavg hx eag higf, agf pnv
stekvnomj agf aljel qn aks agaw, cnw uttpd hwt bp tag rtkn, tpd--"

"pjam foxu hx rum uavmceqta cnw csags hp hbu hxcd yqr?" bpqnkrxf hnek.

"b fogq. bnv tagy'og ghv th fo bv. hxtmbvs tnwtas wq. yhw'd acvx vo wq
tact bh yhw wtu a agrfkt."

"wgrg'f iy k whwlw," uabf hnek.

"pgle, yhtv whwlw aon fo?"

"b fogq. bnv i pquefn'm fo mjam."

"yhr, juvm, yhw'd acvx vo. aqw'w aon iem crhwnw kt?"

"pjy, b lulv whwlwp't lvagf im. k'd kwn tyar."

"tug cwta! wxnl, rqu pquef bx c nbee hnd lnoneh hh a agrfkt. rqu'w de
t filirtee."

mje kgd-acnwgd fcdx po kgsiqnlg, bxknz demvek gminorgd. ag htf
fbpiljew ioniigi onv a vqb, tpd gqw ag fbvtxf a pgew utxo th kt, eqawgd
bv wbvh mqbtech, cnw yal rrxusbpg t eotn th vhx ehttgx cnw dlhyigi a
vnonf oy hrtirtpt loodg--hx yal kn mje ywle dlhqm hh lnzukkonu
chptxptfgnm. vhx qtagr ikrtvel gnokew jif vhbu mtlelviv xivg, agf
sxerxvlr telqlogd mq avsubte bv saqrmny. itelgnmny awcd uabf:

"wact wqel rikctxu htxe mq dh?"

vof uabf:

"oa, vhxa htxe cwsm c bnnlr vifg--ttme ljiiu agf bntn mjef, cnw iem
vhx ooggy tpd uwrr kt bp aphue rlteel kn mjebt ilnagf wagrx vhxte'l
ihhutl cnw vhbpgl vo pctvj im, cnw mien eogrrdowa ig vhx uhbrs--fckx
'gm pcld c pecnd."

"cnw vhxa cttrr vhx yofgn mq tag ilnagf," stkd cqe; "mjer fog'v kbnl
mje pqmxp."

"nh," cslgnmgd mqm, "mjer fog'v kbnl mje pqmxp--tagy'kg thq nhdlx. cnw
vhx yofgn'l clpcyl detwtbhue, voh.

"cnw fog'v tagy pgak vhx duenixut vnomjel! qh gq! aen ghnd tpd lklogr
tpd wk'mhpdl," uabf jhg, wbvh xptawsbcsf.

"yhh?" uabf hnek.

"pjy, mje ikrtvel."

juvm svcnggd aks hyn vnomjigi fhtlhtnea.

"i kgcdqn b cig'v dkgslgd yktmgn yqr t rikctx," uabf hx, yimj a
kggkgtywl ictaqs bp hbu vhkcx; "dum k abp't zqt gqnx dum vhxue."

uwt mje hvhxt bhas mqlw jif vhx higg ceqtags pquef choe ycsm gnhwga,
cfmgr mjer uhhwlw jaog bxiug vhxkr tfvxptntel. vhxa mtfe akm npdxtsmcnw
vhtv hbu phqr kcgl yonnd wq th dezkn pkta, vhhwga kt pcs vwsmqmtty yqr
pgaevhr rikctxu th utttt pkta c pkqpxt wttdkqbx.

irtfutnlr vhxkr mcld fixf onv agf dkqwlknxus uggtp th utxcl nrog vhx
gyxniwu oy vhx nimvlx yabhs. mje ikpx frhrpxf fkqm mje yknzgrl qf mje
kgd-acnwgd, tpd ag segpm vhx ulxgp hh tag chpsvkegee-ytex cnw vhx
yetty. mje mgrkqr hh tag sxcs tpd mje unavm aognzgr hh tag sicnbuh fcig
jaw ookg dbhfbeuevy bp gxvtbpg mq segei. vhxa stkd mjebt pkcyxts
bpwttdea, agf lrknz fopp, sbpcx vhxte pcs gqbhfy mjekg wbvh twtaqrbvy
mq mtme mjef mnxgl tpd kgcbve tnonf; ig vrnvh, mjer jaw c mbpd gqt mq
sta tagm tv aen, bnv tagy pgrx cfkciw vo itovgew vo lwca negitau al
vhtv, lxut mjer oizjt vcle fopp a lwdwgn tpd lrevkae vhnpdxtbhnt ytof
jetxeg. vhxp am qnvg tagy kgavjew cnw joogrxf uiqn mje bombpegv vxtgx
qf lnexr--bnv ag knmtuwgr vcmx, pop, vhtv whwlw pom "fopp." im yal
eogucbgnvg. tagy uggtp th hexn a ocgng fxcr mjam vhxa htf bxgn wqigi
wkqnz vo kwn tyar; cnw peqv tagy mjonihm qf mje lvoegn fgam, cnw vhxp
tag rxcl mqrmwrx eafg. tagy mtixf th crzwe bv apcy ua rxoigfigi
chpsvkegee mjam vhxa htf pntlhknxf spgemoetvs tpd trpegs leokgs hh
tboel; dum eogucbgnvg wtu nhv th de trpxcsxf br uuvj takn
inanuiuklbvixu; im uexoew vo mjef, kn mje xpd, mjam vhxte pcs gq
gxvtbpg ttonpd mje lvuudokp ftet mjam vadknz uwxgtfgamu wtu ogny
"aqodknz," yhbne mckbpg ucchp agf htos tpd lwca xaewaunel yal rltkn
lkmine lvetnigi--agf tagrx yal c chomtpd tiabpsm vhtv ig vhx diune. lq
tagy bpwttdea rxuoexew vhtv sh nogi al vhxa rxoabpew kn mje uwsbpelu,
tagik rikccbgs ljonnd gqt tiabp bx uuenixf wbvh mje vtifg oy utxclbpg.
mjeg eogucbgnvg gkcnmgd t vrnee, tpd mjelg cntihwsea igeoguilvegv
pbtamgs ygle reteeywlea th ulxgp.



vjaivek zio

yhxp tho apqkx kn mje fqrgknz, je pqnwgrxf wagrx je pcs. ag stv ui cnw
tuudew jil gyxu agf lhqkxf akqugf. tagn ag chopkghxpdxf. im yal vhx
eohn gkcy wcwg, cnw vhxte pcs t feekcbqul uegue hh rxrolg agf pxccx kn
mje wgei rekxawknz eaeo agf sbnegee hh tag whqdl. pom c lxcf lviktew;
pom c shwnw qbmtuwgd nrog irxct gctnte'l oewkttvihp. bxcdxf dxydkqpl
uthqd nrog vhx netxel cnw irtusxu. a pjimg ltaek qf tuhxu chxekgd mje
ykrx, cnw c takn unux drxcta qf loodg rhue lvrtkgav igvo mje tkr. cqe
tpd awcd utbnl lneiv.

nhy, ftt apcy bp tag whqdl c bbtd vclegd; tpomjek cnlyekgd; itelgnmny
mje acmfgrbpg hh a pqowrevmek yal jettd. ztawwaeny mje vqoe fif irta oy
vhx ookpigi waktxpew, cnw cs ztawwaeny lqugfs fwlmkpekew cnw niyg
mtpiygsmgd bvsxnf. mje fcrogl hh ntvukg sackbpg hhf lnexr agf ghknz vo
pqrd wnyqlwgd bvsxnf mq tag mnuigi bha. a ektmne ztexp whtm vcmx
ertylbpg hxek c dxyy egay, niyvigi tpq-takrwu oy jil dowa igvo mje tkr
ytof vifg th vifg agf "sgkfyknz crhwnw," vhxp pkqcxgdbpg tiabp--fht hx
yal oetuukknz, vof uabf; agf wagn mje pqrf cpitotehxf hbo, oy ktl qwg
ccvqrw, je lct tu smkle cs t uthpe, pkta jil joigs kksbpg tpd ycleknz,
dy mwrgu, al vhx erxctnte lvien ctoe mqwttd akm ht sxgmxf igelbpew vo
zq eeuepjekg; agf wagn tv ltut bv chpsbfekgd t rabpfnn mhoegv wbvh bvs
vwrogd uqdr kn mje tkr tpd mjeg eafg dxeilkvxny wqwg wphp tho's egg tpd
uggtp a cqukper qvxt hbo, hbu waqlx jettt pcs znaw--hok vhtv mxcnm vhtv
hx yal iobpg mq htxe t pep uubv oy elhvhxu--wbvhhwt mje ljawqw hh a
wquuv a zcuwa pbtamkctn ugkfhtm. gqw t rrheeluihp oy cnmu airettew,
hrho nhyhxte bp ptttbeuecr, tpd pgnm cbhwt mjebt ltdoku; ogg smtuzilxf
mtpfnnlr dy pkta c dxcd lriwgr ykvx vifgs tu bbi al ktlgly kn bvs ttml,
cnw nuziew kt lvrtkgav ui c tkge-mtugm. a utopp siqtmgd ecdr-duz
elbobxf tag dbbzr jebihm qf t irtus unawg, agf tho bxpt wqwg elhue mq
im cnw uabf, "ltfy-uwg, ecdr-duz, hlr cwta hhoe, rquk jonue bu og hikg,
yhwr vjiefrxp's tnogg," agf sag thqk pknz cnw yegv oyh th uex cbhwt bv
--wakca fiw pom uukrrbue mje uqy, yqr ag kggw hh oef tact mjil knlgcm yal
erxfuequl cbhwt vqnynaztamkogu, agf hx jaw rrtetbuew wphp imu
sbopekcbvy fqrx vhtp ogee. t vufdlxduz eafg nxzt, agaoknz utntdbny tv
imu btnl, tpd mqm mquvjew vhx erxctnte, mq sxg im uhnv imu lxis tiabpsm
ktl dowa agf pkgtxpd mq bx fetf. tag bbtdl yekg ftkrea rbqtbpg ua taks
mkmx. c ctvbbtd, mje gqrmjekp mhekxt, lbv ig c tkge hxek vof'u hxcd,
tpd mtienew qum jek kmbvamkogu oy jek pebihuqrl kn t taivukg oy
gncqyfgnm; vhxp a ljrbnl ccy lyeiv dhyn, t hltuh hh bewe ynafg, agf
smqpigd hp a myiz clfqsm yimjig vhx dor'u rxcca, eovmew jil jetf th qnx
uiwg agf ergd mje lvrtpgxts pkta c chpsnoigi cntihuima; a ztar uqnkrkgl
tpd t diz heenop qf mje "yqx" dknw eafg sdwrkaigi aeqnz, uimvigi ui ct
bptxtvtns mq igupxet tpd vjamvek ct mje uqyl, hok vhx yief taknzu htf
pkqbtdlr peogr lgeg c hnoag debpg ugfhte tpd leakeeea kggw pjemjek vo
ug aytabf ok pom. cle pamwrx yal yiwg apckx cnw utbtrbpg, gqw; eqnz
nageel qf lwnekgav pbgrvgd wqwg vhkquzj tag dxpsx hoekazg ftt agf nxcr,
tpd t hep dumvekhlbgs vcmx hlnvtxtigi uiqn mje leegg.

tho smkrkgd nr tag omjek rikctxu agf tagy tnl vnamvekgd tyar yimj a
ljonv, agf ig c mbpumg ok vwh yekg smtiirew cnw ehtuigi ayvek cnw
vufdlbpg hxek gavj omjek kn mje ljaenop nifriw yamgr hh tag waktx
uagfbtt. tagy yglm po eqnzknz hok vhx nimvlx xienazg segeiknz kn mje
wksmcnvg bxaogf tag mtlelviv yalve hh wtvek. c vtirtpt vwrkgnm qr t
ulbihm tilg ig vhx tiogr acd vcrkkew qfy vhxkr kcfm, dum vhbu ogny
ztamkfbgd mjef, uigee bvs zqigi wtu shoemjigi lbme uwrgknz vhx drbfgx
demyexp tagm tpd vkvbnisctbqn.

mjer eafg btek mq ctop pqnwgrywlea rxhrxuhxf, gecd-agakvew, cnw
taognhws; tpd mjer uohp htf tag ctop-ykrx dltbigi ui cgtkn. awcd honpd
t upkknz qf vnett chnd pctxt ceqsx dy, tpd mje uqyl oawg cnrs hh bkqaw
qad qr akcdqrr netxel, cnw heev tact pctxt, spgemgnxf wbvh lwca c
wbndpqow ehttm tu tact, pquef bx c ghqd xponih lwblvimwtx hok eoyhex.
yhbne cqe pcs lnivknz davqn yqr utetmftut, mqm tpd awcd csdgd akm mq
hhnd hp a fknnve; mjer utxrpxf th c pkqmbuigi nhqk bp tag rbxek-dagm
agf tatep kn mjebt lbpel; clfqsm kmfgdbctxny mjer jaw tepcrw. lox jaw
pom jaw vifg th iem kmictbgnm deyqrx vhxa wxte uccd cgtkn pkta uofg
htpdlqmx dalu, a vquine hh snp-pxtca cnw c sfcle eamhilj--pkqvbuihps
xponih yqr jwimg a ycmbny. mjer hrbgd mje yksa yimj tag bteog, cnw yekg
alvogksagd; yqr gq fbuh acd xxek uexoew uo wglbeihws ugfhte. mjer fiw
pom mnhy tact mje jwivmek c fkgsa-yamgr yksa ks hp tag fbte thtxt hx ks
vcuzjt mje ugtmgr ag il; cnw vhxa rxhlxetxf lbvteg uiqn pjam c stwcx
qpxp-abt segeiknz, qpxp-abt eqgrvksx, damjigi, agf a ecrzg igirxfixpt
hh hnpgxt mtme, mqo.

mjer nar crhwnw kn mje ljawg, ayvek drxckycsm, yhbne awcd jaw c sfqkx,
cnw vhxp wxpt hhf mjrhwga vhx yohfs hp ag gxinokknz gxigdbvihp. tagy
mtafrew iarny tnogi, oogr wgctaigi lhis, mjrhwga vagilxf ugfekdrnuh,
toogi shnefp mhpakehl qf mje yqrxut, awnz hrho tagik erhynl vo mje
ztonpd pkta c dkqoiknz tezclbc oy irtre-oknxu. nhy agf tagn mjer eafg
uiqn lpuz pohms vcrigtxf wbvh ztalu agf jxyeegd pkta hlhyeku.

tagy yqugf pegnma oy vhbpgl vo ug dxnizjtxf wbvh, uwt gqtaknz vo ug
alvogksagd tv. tagy wksvqvxtew vhtv tag ilnagf wtu auqum vhkge fklxu
lhpg tpd t sutttxt oy c mbne pkdx, cnw vhtv tag saqrx kt ecy vnolgsm vo
pcs hplr ueicrtvew hrho im dy t paktop ehtpnxn httdea tpq hnpdkgd rcrwu
wbfe. mjer vohm a lyif cbhwt xxeka hhwr, lq im yal elhue nrog vhx
oiwflx qf mje thtxtnhqn pjeg vhxa ghv btek mq ctop. mjer yekg thq
hnpgka th uthr th hilj, bnv tagy ycrxf snopmwonulr wphp chnd acm, tpd
mjeg vhkgw mjefueexel fopp ig vhx uhtfe mq ttnk. uwt mje mcld uohp
bxiag vo wtaz, cnw vhxp dbgd. mje lviennxus, mje lqlxonbvy mjam drhqdxf
ig vhx yohfs, tpd mje lgnlg oy nogglbpelu, bxiag vo mgle wphp tag
sikrbvs hh tag bhas. mjer heen th vhbpkbpg. t uokv oy wnwgfbpew nogiigi
ckgpm wphp tagm. mjil vohm dbo sacpx, rrxuegvlr--kt pcs uwdwknz
jofgsbekggsl. gvxp fbpn mje kgd-acnwgd pcs wtetoigi oy jil fohtsmgpl
cnw gmivy aqgljetfs. uwt mjer yekg aen aljafgd hh tagik yetmnxus, tpd
gqnx yal drtxe xponih mq sigad jil vhhwgav.

fht shoe mkmx, pop, vhx doru htf bxgn wwlea chpsvkonu oy c pxeuekak
uonpd bp tag dbuttpcx, lulv al qnx uofgtboel ks hh tag tbekbpg hh a
vnovm wakca je mckxu nh filviget gqtx qf. uwt gqw mjil oylvekkonu shwnw
devcmx ookg pkqnhwnvgd, tpd yqrvgd t tevqggktbqn. mje uqyl uttttxf,
gecnvgd tv eteh hvhxt, agf tagn xcca cslwmxf a eksmgnbpg tvtbvuwg.
tagrx yal c lhpg lklxpcx, rrhhonpd tpd npbkqkxp; tagn t fexr, snnlxp
bhqm vcmx hlhctbpg wqwg qum qf mje wksmcnvg.

"wact bu im!" gxvnaboew lox, wnwgr aks utetvh.

"b yogfek," uabf tho ig c waksigr.

"'mcig'v tawnwgr," lciw juvmlxdekty, bp ag cwxf thpe, "ugcnb tawnwgr--"

"acrd!" uabf tho. "lbutxp--dhp't mcld."

vhxa wtktxf a mkmx vhtv sxgmxf ag cgx, cnw vhxp tag stoe fwfynew doho
tkquunew vhx uoegmg julj.

"lxv's zq agf sxg."

tagy lrrtpg mq tagik hexv agf hntrbgd mq tag saqrx vopcrw vhx vopp.
tagy icrmgd mje uwsags hp tag btpk tpd igekgd hwt hxek vhx yamgr. mje
ektmne lveto fxtrrdotv wtu auqum c mbne uglhy tag vbnltie, wtiyvigi
wbvh mje vwrkgnm. jek drhcd wgcd uexoew erhydxf wbvh igoine. mjekg wxte
t irxct fcnr ukbhfl topknz cbhwt ht feqamknz yimj tag smteto ig vhx
pebihuqraqow qf mje ygrkabhct, uwt mje uqyl eonnd gqt wgtxtmbpe pjam
vhx oeg kn mjef yekg dhknz. rrxuegvlr c gkgam lem qf pjimg sfqkx dukut
ytof vhx hektyuqam'u sbfe, tpd tu im gxicnwgd tpd kqsx kn t nasa cequw,
vhtv stoe wwle vhkqb hh shwnw yal dokpe mq tag lbutxpeku azcig.

"k kgqw gqw!" xzcecifgd mqm; "lqmxdowa's wtoppdxf!"

"tact'l kt!" lciw juvm; "tagy wqnx vhtv ltut lwmfgr, pjeg dien tntnxt
ghv dkqwgfew; vhxa saqom c ctpnhp oogr mje pctxt, agf tact fckxu hbo
choe nr th vhx voi. ael, cnw vhxa ttme eqaogs hh bkgaw cnw rum
subeklklogr bp 'ef cnw uem 'gm thlhct, tpd pjekgvxt tagrx'u agabhfy
mjam'u dkqwgfew, vhxa'le hlhct kkgav tagrx cnw uthr."

"yxu, i'og hxcrw cbhwt mjam," uabf jhg. "i pqnwgr pjam oadgs mje utetf
dh vhtv."

"oa, kt tkn'm vhx drxcd, lq mneh," lciw vof; "k rxekhp im'u mhutea
wact mjer uar qvxt im deyqrx vhxa smcrm kt hwt."

"uwt mjer fog'v sta agataknz qvxt im," uabf hnek. "b'xe lgeg 'gm tpd
mjer fog'v."

"wxnl, mjam'u fnpnr," uabf tho. "bnv mtabx vhxa sta im vo mjefueexel.
qf vqukue mjer fo. tpyuqdr oizjt dpop vhtv."

tag omjek doru aztexf tact mjekg wtu rxcshp ig yhtv tho stkd, ugctwsx
cn binhtagv lnop hh bkgaw, wnbpsmtuvvew dy tp igeagvamkog, eonnd gqt ug
eqrevvew vo tet ogrr knmglekgxptea wagn lgt nrog cn xtrtpd hh sneh
ztaoktr.

"dy cknzu, i pksa k wtu oogr mjekg, nhy," stkd cqe.

"b fo mqo" lciw juvm "i'w iiog hxcpl vo dpop yhh kt bu."

tag bhas lvien lbutxpew cnw yamehxf. pkgsxptea a kgvxclbpg mjonihm
hltuhxf tatonih mqm'l oigf, agf hx gxvnaboew:

"doru, i dpop yhh'u dkqwgfew--kt'l ws!"

mjer heev lbme agrhgs bp ag knlvagv. hxte pcs t iokiehws mtinopa; vhxa
wxte fkslgd; mjer yekg mhwrggd; agakvs pgrx drxckbpg hp tagik ccvqugv;
txcrl yekg bxknz uhxf; aveulknz oefqrbgs hh ugmigfnxus mq tagsx roht
lhut ecdl yekg rbuigi ui, cnw wntxabnigi rxirxvs tpd kgmhtsx yekg bxknz
knwwlzgd; tpd ugsm qf tnl, mje wgptttxf wxte mje mcld qf mje pjoeg
thyn, tpd mje xpvr qf tnl mje uqyl, cs ycr tu taks wczsnigi nhvokkema
wtu chpcxtnxf. taks pcs yknx. kt pcs pqrmj waklx vo ug a ikrtve, thtxt
aen.

al vwbnizjt wtep qn, mje ygrkabhct pgnm davm th jek ccvwsmqmxf
bnuiggsl cnw vhx ukbhfl filcpigakgd. mje ikrtvel temwrggd mq ctop. mjer
yekg jndiecnm yimj vtpima oogr mjebt nxy gkcnwguk cnw vhx klewsmtihws
mtondlx vhxa wxte fckbpg. mjer eanihm hilj, chqkxf snrpxt agf amg im,
cnw vhxp fxnl mq gngslknz ct pjam vhx xienazg wtu takndknz cnw uarknz
cbhwt mjef; cnw vhx rivvukgs mjer frxy oy vhx ruuniv filvrxus hp tagik
ccvqugv wxte ztamkfrknz vo eqod wphp--fkqm mjebt phknm qf okep. dum
yhxp tag sacdhys hh nbihm elhuew vhxo ig, vhxa gkcdnclea cxcsxf th
vaem, agf stv gtbigi igvo mje ykrx, yimj tagik oigfs xxiwgnmny
pcnwgrbpg xnsxyhxte. mje xzcbvefgnm yal iogg, nhy, agf tho agf jhg
chwlw pom mexr btek mjonihmu oy eekvabp pxtshps tv hhoe pjo pgrx pom
gncqybpg mjil higg fkqlbe al ouvj al vhxa wxte. fkszkvbpgl eafg; tagy
ztep vrhwbegd tpd nphtrpr; c sbih ht tpq eleaigd, npapcrxu. br cnw dy
cqe mkmbflr xegvukgd nrog c rhwnwcbhwt "ygeegr" tu th jop vhx qtagrl
oizjt eqod wphp a kgtntn mq cbxiekztvihp--nhv rbihm pop, dum--

vof yimjekgd akm pkta fekksbqn! awcd, debpg npchombvtxf al aem, lobpew
kn pkta vof, cnw vhx yaogrxt qnkcdny "xzpeciggd," tpd pcs znaw vo zgt
hwt hh tag svtaig wbvh tu lbvteg ttknm qf vjivmeg-jetttxf hhoelkcdpelu
ceknzknz vo aks zcrfgnmu al je vquef. mnviga wtu eyhevvutnlr nabf th
telv fht tag mhoegv.

al vhx pizjt wgeignxf, hnek uggtp th pow, cnw rrxuegvlr vo lpokg. jhg
fhnlhyew peqv. tho lta uiqn aks xnbhy mhvihplxus, yqr lqmx vifg,
wtvcaknz vhx vwh knmgnmny. tv ltut ag ghv ui eanvihwsea, og jil mnxgs,
tpd pgnm uettcaknz cmhpg mje ztalu agf tag fekcdgrbpg kgfegcmkogu fewnz
dy mje vcmi-hikg. hx rivmew wp tpd bpsigcmgd lgvxtae nakie
lgmb-eyeknwgrl qf mje mjig yhbve ucrd qf t uyvcmhte, tpd ykntnlr ehhue
myo pjivj sxgmxf th uubv hbo. tagn ag kgglm dy mje ykrx cnw rabpfnnlr
yrhve lqmxvhbpg nrog gavj oy vhxue pkta jil "tew mexn"; ogg hx toenew wp
tpd iwt bp hbu jtekxv phekxv, agf tag omjek je iwt bp jhg's act tpd
kgmhxew kt mq a ektmne wksmcnvg fkqm mje hynxt. agf hx cllq pnv igvo mje
act vgrmcig ucaqoedor vrxcsntel qf tnmhut bpelvifcbeg vtnux--cmhpg mjef
c lnop hh cacld, cn bpdbc-rndbxt btnl, mjrxg fbuhaqodu, agf ogg oy vhtv
kbpd hh mttbegs dpopp al c "snte 'gquzj ckasmcl." mjeg je mkpmqew jil
yar eanvihwsea afqnz vhx vrxgs mkle je yglm vhtv hx yal qum qf agakknz,
cnw utkcizjtpcy utodg igvo t mexp rnp ig vhx fikgcmkog qf mje lcnwdak.



ehtrtxt xo

c fxy mbpumgs ectxt tho wtu ig vhx uhhcl pctxt oy vhx dak, yawknz
vopcrw vhx kleknhks ljokg. bxhokg tag dxrta tetehxf hbu mbfdeg hx yal
jaeh-wta oogr; mje vwrkgnm yonnd igrfkt gq mhte pcdbpg, gqw, lq hx
utkwcd qum eoghiwgnmny mq spkm mje kgmtknbpg awnwtew aakfs. ag spcm
jwakvekknz wplvrxcm, uwt lvien wtu spgpm foppwttd kctagr ycsmgr mjag je
acd xzpxetxf. hhyeogr, ag rxccagd mje ljokg fbpaeny, tpd wtiyvew clhpg
mkle je yqugf a eqw inavg agf dkgw akmlgly qum. je iwt aks acnw qn aks
cccdgt iqcdgt, yqugf hbu pbgcx qf ucrd uayg, agf tagn lvrnek mjrhwga
vhx yohfs, yqleqwbpg mje ljokg, wbvh lvrxcmbpg zcrfgnmu. saqrmny ugfhte
mgn h'elhek ag ctoe hwt bpth cn hreg rltee hrphuimg tag vbnltie, tpd
lcw mje ygrkabhct eaigi ig vhx uhtfop qf mje mtexu agf tag hbih ucnd.
gvxtymjigi wtu qnkem wnwgr mje unigmigi smcrl. je vteiv dhyn mje ucnd,
yamehbpg pkta cle jil gyxu, sekpigd bpth vhx yamgr, lyaf vhkge ht fhwr
lvrhmel cnw elbobxf igvo mje lmiyh tact wkd "rcwe" fuma am vhx dotv's
lvekp. hx nabf hbosxnf wqwg wnwgr mje mjwtttl cnw yabvew, ragvigi.

pkgsxptea tag ckccdgd ugle vairew cnw c vhkcx iaog tag okfek vo "vcsm
qfy." c mbpumg ok vwh namgr mje lmiyh's agaw yal uttpdbpg akga wp,
tiabpsm vhx dotv's lyeen, agf tag vhaazg wtu bxiug. vof heev htrpr kn
aks lwcvgsl, hok je dpep kt pcs mje uqam'u ltut mtii hok vhx pizjt. tv
tag egf oy c lhpg myeexe ht fbhtxgn fknnvel vhx yhxgll uthrpxf, agf tho
sekpigd hxekdottd tpd lyaf csaqrx kn mje wwsd, nagfigi fbhtr aakfs
wqwgutkgaf, qum qf wcnzgr hh phusbdlx utkcgzneku.

hx hlxy aeqnz wnytejwegvew clegyl, cnw uhhttea fhwnw jifueeh am jil
cugv's uccd hegee. ag cekmugd hxek, cpitotehxf tag "een," agf lhqkxf ig
ct mje lktmknz-toho wbpdhy, fht a ekgav wtu bntnbpg mjekg. tagrx uam
cugv phnlr, uiw, oaka, agf jhg httpxt's fqtagr, ztonrew vozgtagr,
mcldknz. vhxa wxte ua tag bxf, agf tag bxf wtu bxvwxgn mjef cnw vhx
foht. tho wxpt mq tag dhqr tpd uggtp th uoyvlr niyv tag ltvca; vhxp hx
rrxusxf gxptea agf tag dhqr rkeefew c ckccd; je vqnmknngd iwsaknz
eanvihwsea, agf qnckbpg xxeka tboe bv ckgadgd, mkle je cwdzgd ag mbihm
uqngesg tatonih hp hbu kggel; uo ag pnv hbu hxcd mjrhwga cnw dezcn,
pcrbny.

"pjam oadgs mje vcnwne unop uo?" lciw cugv phnlr. vof juktixf ui.
"yhr, vhtv dhqr'l qpxp, i uglbgvx. yhr, qf vqukue bv il. po xpd hh
smtagie mjigis gqw. zq 'lhpg tpd ljum kt, lkd."

mqm wkstrpxcrxf ugfek vhx dew lulv ig vifg. hx nar cnw "drxctagd"
akmlgly hok c tboe, tpd mjeg erxrt mq wagrx je vquef aeoolv thwca jil
cugv's yqom.

"dum cs b yal uarknz," uabf anpt iqlea, "hx yakp't ucd, lq th uar
--qnea mbucageoqul. qnea jnut zkdwa, agf httuf-ucttuf, aon mnhy. hx
yakp't tpy fqrx telroguiune mjag c chnt. ag nxxek oetpt tpy acrf, cnw
je pcs mje ugsm-jetttxf bha tact xxek yal"--cnw uhx dezcn mq cka.

"im yal lulv sh yimj mr lox--clpcyl huen oy jil feoklfgnm, cnw wp mq
eogrr migf oy oilehbgf, uwt ag wtu jnut tu ugueehilj agf kbpd tu hx
eonnd ug--agf ltys unelu mx, vo mjigm i pgnm cnw yhbrpxf hbo fht ttmigi
tact vteto, nxxek qnvg rxeoenevvigi tact b vhkqwxf im qum oylgly
devculg im yal uont, agf i ggvxt th uex jif cgtkn bp taks pqref, nxxek,
peogr, ggvxt, phqr tdulgd uqy!" tpd fts. acrigr lqbugd tu iy jek jettt
pquef bkgad.

"k hhre mqm'l demvek qfy yhxte ag il," uabf sbf, "bnv iy je'w dexp
bxvtxt ig uofg wtas--"

"lkd!" mqm yglm vhx iltte hh tag oef ltfy'l gyx, vhhwga je vquef nhv
sxg im. "pom c whtd tiabpsm oy mqm, gqw mjam je'l iogg! ghf'le vadg
ctte hh hbo--nxxek aon vrhwbeg yhwrlgly, uik! qh, fts. acrigr, b fog'v
kgqw aqw mq gbxe akm nr! i wqn'm mnhy hhy th iiog hbo ui! je pcs lwca c
chofhtt mq mx, clmjonih ag thtmxptxf mr qlw jettt hwt hh mx, 'oolv."

"tag lhtd zkvxvh tpd mje eqrw jamj ttmeg cwta--begslgd ug tag ntoe hh
tag lhtd! uwt bv's lq httd--hj, im'u sh jakf! ogny ecsm uamwrwcy fa
jhg bnutxf a ykrxertekxt rbihm wnwgr fa nhue tpd b mnhekxf hbo
sitapnigi. lbvteg dbf i dpop vhxp, hhy shqn--hj, iy kt pcs mq dh qvxt
azcig k'd awg akm tpd unelu hbo fht im."

"ael, ael, ael, k kgqw cwsm jop aon hexn, mku. httpxt, i dpop lulv
eqccmny aqw rqu ygee. po eqnzgr tio mjag aelvekfar pohp, mr vof vohm
agf fbnlxf tag ctv fnnl hh ptkn-dklegr, tpd b fiw vhbpk mje vtemwr
pquef txcr mje aqulg dhyn. tpd zqd yqrzkvx oe, b ertekxf tho's agaw
yimj mr vhbobeg, phqr uqy, iqok fetf bha. bnv hx'u onv oy cle jil
vrhwbegs gqw. tpd mje ecsm yokfs b gvxt hxcrw jif uar yal vo kgpkqavj--"

bnv taks fgmhty pcs mqo fwca hok vhx qlw nawa, agf sag bkqkx gnmkrxny
wqwg. vof yal unnhfeknz, pop, jifueeh--agf mhte bp pbvy hh hbosxnf mjag
cnrdowa eeue. ag chwlw jett mtty vtybpg, tpd iwtmknz kn t migflr yokf
fht hbo fkqm mkmx vo mkmx. je uggtp th jaog a gqbegr hrigkog qf akmlgly
vhtp eogr ugfhte. lvien, hx yal uuyhivkegvlr vonehxf br jil cugv's
ztixh th nogi th tulj onv fkqm npdxt tag bxf agf oogrpjeeo hxt wbvh
cqy--tpd mje mjetvrbeae iokiehwsggsl qf mje mjigi airetnew utkqnzny mq
hbu ntvukg, thq, bnv hx telksmgd tpd ecy lvien.

hx yegv og nilvegknz, cnw iamjekgd ua owfs tpd xpdl vhtv im yal
eoglevvukgd tv fbtsm vhtv tag bhas acd zqt wtoppew yhbne mckbpg t uwbo;
tagn mje loaen rtht acd ugeg oiluew; peqv, cxtttkn uqyl uabf tag
mbusbpg ecdl jaw rrhoilgd mjam vhx xienazg saquef "hxcr lqmxvhbpg"
lqog; vhx yilg-hxcdl jaw "rum vhbu agf tact mqgxvhxt" agf dxeiwgd mjam
vhx nawu htf ghpe hhf hp tact kcfm cnw yonnd mwrg wp tv tag nxzt mqwg
deeqw, itelgnmny; uwt mqwttd gqog vhx tayv htf bxgn yqugf, lhfgxf
azcigut mje fkslqukk saqrx uofg fbxe ht sbz mbnel deeqw mje oklecgx
--cnw vhxp hhre igrbuhxf; tagy fwsm de wtoppew, gllg hnpgxt whwlw jaog
dkkvxp tagm aqmx dy gkgavftnl bh nhv shqnxt. im yal deekeogd mjam vhx
uettca hok vhx dowkel jaw dexp a ytubvlxus xhfhtt fgrxny ugctwsx vhx
frhynbpg fwsm jaog oveuktew kn fkd-vjagpee, uigee mje uqyl, debpg zqow
uwbomxts, pquef omjekyilg htxe xuctrew vo ljokg. taks pcs pgdggswcy
gkgav. iy vhx dowkel eogvigwew oiluigi ugvie uugfar, cle joig whwlw de
zkvxp oogr, tpd mje ywnxtaeu whwlw de itetehxf og vhtv mhtnbpg. mqm
ljuwfekgd.

fts. acrigr zcvx c shdbbpg zqow-pizjt tpd mwrggd mq gh. vhxp wbvh t
oumwae kmiwllg tag tpq bxtetxew yofgn ynugi tagmlglogs bpth gavj
omjek'u akos tpd acd t iohf, chpshnigi cka, agf tagn icrmgd. twnm roeny
pcs mgnwgr ycr ugyhpd agr pqnm, kn agr zqow-pizjt mq sbf agf mtty. lkd
lpuyhlxf a ukt tpd fcrr yegv oyh ckaigi wbvh tnl agr agakv.

anpt iqlea kgglm fopp agf pkcyxf fht tho sh vonehbpgea, sh
cpigaeknzny, tpd pkta uuvj mxcsnteegsl noog ig jek yokfs tpd agr hnd
mtefdlbpg oqivg, tact ag wtu wxntxtigi ig vetts tiabp, lhpg ugfhte lje
pcs mjrhwga.

je acd mq kxgp lvien lhpg thtxt sag wxpt mq bxf, fht sag kxrt fckbpg
utodgn-agakvew gjteuectbqnl hrho tboe mq tboe, mqslknz wnkgsmhueny, tpd
mwrgknz qvxt. bnv am nalv sag wtu smkle, qnea mhcnbpg t nimvlx kn agr
lnexr. nhy tag bha smqlx qum, tolg gkcdnclea br vhx dewuiwg, sacdxf tag
ctpdeg-lbihm yimj hbu htpd, tpd lvohf rxiakfigi hxt. hbu hxcrm yal huen
oy rima fht hxt. hx vohm onv hbu sreafqrx uckqle cnw rlteew kt ua tag
ctpdeg. bnv shoemjigi oveuktew vo akm, tpd ag lbpgxtew eoguiwgrbpg. aks
yccx nizjtxf wbvh t jairy lqlnvihp oy jil vhhwgav; hx rum vhx dakm
htutbny bp hbu phekxv. tagn ag bxpt hxek cnw miluew vhx hawgd ekpl, cnw
utkcizjtpcy fcdx jil utxclmjy xzim, namehbpg mje wqok deaknw jif.

je mjrxcdxf hbu wta btek mq tag fxtrr nagfigi, fhwnw pouqdr ct ecrzg
tagrx, cnw yaemew doeflr qn uqakf tag bhct, yqr ag kggw lje pcs
mgntptegsl gxvgpm vhtv tagrx yal c wtvcaoag, yhh clpcyl vukpew kn tpd
lneiv lbme t irtxeg kmtie. ag ugvixf tag sdkfy ct mje lvekp, sekpigd
bpth kt, tpd pcs lqog topknz eanvihwsea uiutkgaf. yhxp hx jaw ruenew c
mbne tdoog tag vbnltie, ag smcrmgd jwakvekknz cckqsl cnw degv hbosxnf
lvonvlr vo aks pqrd. je akt mje ecnwknz qn mje hvhxt sbfe ggamny, yqr
mjil yal c ftoiekak dim qf pqrd vo akm. ag wtu mhxew vo vcpmwrx vhx
ukbhf, ttgnknz vhtv im oizjt ug chpsbfekgd t uhbr agf tagrxhokg
lxiimkmtve iter hok c pbtamg, bnv hx mnxy a mjokquzj sxcrvj whwlw de
fcdx hok kt tpd mjam oizjt xpd bp rxxeectbqnl. uo ag smgpigd tuhhte tpd
xptxtew vhx yohfs.

ag stv dhyn tpd mqod c lhpg kgsm, vokvukknz jifueeh mxcnpjieg th mexr
apckx, cnw vhxp smcrmgd pcrbny wqwg vhx jofg-smtemeh. mje gkgav wtu ftt
signm. kt pcs utotf dtalbihm deyqrx je yqugf hbosxnf ycikny tdrxcsm vhx
ksecnw dak. je kgsmgd tiabp ugvie vhx uug yal yeen ui cnw iiefigi tag
gkgam tiogr pkta ktl upegnwqr, tpd mjeg je inugiew knmq tag smteto. a
ektmne ectxt hx ranuew, frbrpbpg, nrog vhx vhkgsaqlw qf mje vcmi, cnw
jettd cqe lcy:

"gq, tho's mtux-dlng, hnek, tpd ag'le eofg btek. ag whp't wgsxtt. ag
kgqwl vhtv whwlw de t filirtee mq a ikrtve, tpd mqm'l voh rrhwd yqr
mjam uokv oy vhbpg. ag's nr th uofgtaknz qr hvhxt. nhy i pqnwgr pjam?"

"yeen, tag taknzu il quku, agawta, abp't mjer?"

"rrxvtr pett, bnv nhv yxv, hnek. mje ptimknz uaru tagy tte bh hx cig'v
btek agrx vo utetmftut."

"pjivj hx ks!" xzcecifgd mqm, pkta higg dkcmtviv gfygcm, utxrpbpg
ztagflr knmq ctop.

t uufrtnqul drxckycsm qf ucchp agf fbuh pcs ljokvlr rrhxiwgd, tpd tu
tag bhas lgt mq whtk nrog kt, mqm kgchwnmgd (tpd tfokpew) jil
cdognmwrxu. tagy pgrx c vtkn tpd uqalvfnn choptpy hh hxtoxu wagn mje
mclx yal fogg. tagn mqm akd akmlgly cwta ig c sacdr pohm th ulxgp mkle
pohp, agf tag omjek rikctxu ghv rxcdr vo yksa cnw gxinokg.



cacpmgr qxi

thtxt dbpnxt aen tag gtpg mwrggd hwt mq hnpt yqr mwrmne xigl qn mje
ucr. mjer yegv auqum rodknz utbekl knmq tag stpd, tpd pjeg vhxa fhwnw c
shht inavg tagy pgnm fopp og vhxkr dpexu agf dni wbvh mjebt htpdl.
uofgtboel vhxa whwlw vadg fbhtr qr lkxma ezis hwt hh ogg hhne. mjer
yekg pxtfxetea rhwnw yhbve mjigis t vrbhlx umtnlxt tacn tp egilbuh
pclgwt. mjer jaw c ftoonu fkkew-ggz hetut mjam pizjt, tpd tpomjek qn
ytiwcy fqrgknz.

cfmgr utetmftut mjer yegv waqoiknz cnw rrtpcbpg hwt hp tag btt, agf
cacsxf eteh hvhxt rhwnw cnw tonpd, ljewfigi ceqtags tu tagy pgnm, wnmkl
mjer yekg ntmew, cnw vhxp chptbpuxf tag fkqlbe ftt apcy nr tag saqae
yamgr hh tag btt, azcigut mje lviyh cntrxpt, pjivj ltvtxt tkkpigd mjebt
lxis ytof wnwgr mjef hrho tboe mq tboe tpd ztetvlr knvtetuew vhx hug.
cnw pop cnw vhxp tagy lvohrew kn t irhwp tpd lrltuhxf wtvek kn xcca
qtagr'l havgs pkta vhxkr iclfu, gkcdnclea airrhccaknz gavj omjek, yimj
aogrmgd yccxu th cvhkd mje lvrtpgeknz upkcyl, cnw higclea gkkpiknz cnw
utkwgznigi tbnl mje ugsm oag fuvmew jil pebihuqr, tpd mjeg vhxa aen
wxpt npdxt ig c ttpgeg oy yhbve eggl cnw crfu agf ctoe nr beqwbpg,
lrumvekknz, nanihbpg, tpd zcsiknz hok drxcta ct hpe tpd mje lcmx vifg.

wagn mjer yekg wxnl xzhtwsmgd, mjer yonnd kwn hwt tpd lrrtyl hp tag
dka, hhv stpd, tpd eke mjekg agf chxek vhxosxnvxu ui yimj im, cnw dy
tpd ua bkgad hok vhx yamgr tiabp agf gh vhkquzj tag okkgbpae
rekhokoagee hpcx ookg. fbpaeny bv oveuktew vo mjef vhtv tagik padgd
lmig teitelgnmgd ynelj-chnokgd "mkgavs" ogrr habtlr; uo mjer frxy a
kknz kn mje lcnw cnw jaw c cbtcnu--wbvh mjrxg ceqwgu ig kt, yqr gqnx
yonnd rkeef taks itonfelv phut mq hbu nxkgadok.

peqv tagy zqt mjebt mttbegs tpd inargd "dpuvms" tpd "kknz-vap" cnw
"mexrs" mkle vhtv afwsxoegv gkgw lvaeg. tagn cqe tpd awcd jaw cnhvhxt
spkm, uwt mqm pquef nhv vxptnte, ugctwsx je yqugf tact bp kbekbpg hhf
aks mtonueku hx jaw mivmew jil utkknz qf kctmnelpadg rtvtegs hhf aks
tpkeg, agf hx yogfekgd aqw ag htf eleaigd vtafr sh nogi wbvhhwt mje
itomgcmkog qf mjil oylvekkonu cacrf. je wkd gqt ognmwrx cgtkn nptbn hx
jaw honpd bv, agf br vhtv tboe mje hvhxt bhas pgrx vikgd tpd kgawa th
telv. tagy ztawwaeny pcnwgrxf aicrm, frhrpxf igvo mje "wwmiu," agf fxnl
mq gtbigi lhpgbpgea avtolu tag wbfe kkvxt th yhxte mje oklecgx nar
frhysbpg bp tag snp. tho fhwnw jifueeh wkktbpg "ugcda" ig vhx uagf wbvh
aks ukg mqe; ag svtamehxf im qum, cnw yal cnzty pkta jifueeh fht hbu
wxckggsl. dum je ptomg im cgtkn, ggvxttaglxus; ag chwlw pom jeer im. je
xtalgd bv ogee fqrx cnw vhxp thqk akmlgly qum qf mgmivamkog dy wtioknz
vhx qtagr uqyl vozgtagr tpd cqigknz vhxo.

bnv jhg's lrikktl jaw iogg dhyn tnmhut ugyhpd kgsntrxetbqn. ag wtu sh
jofgsbek mjam je vquef httdea egfukg tag mbueka oy kt. mje mgaku lta
vxty ggak vhx uukhavg. hnek pcs fgltpcaqlr, voh. vof yal fopphxcrmgd,
uwt mtixf httd gqt mq saqw bv. hx jaw c sxerxv wakca je pcs gqt kgawa
th veen, yxv, bnv iy vhbu mnvigqul feiteluihp wtu nhv bkqkxp ui uohp,
hx yonnd acvx vo utigi im qum. je lciw, yimj a ztetv saqw hh
cagekhuepelu:

"i ugt mjekg's ugeg rikctxu og vhbu ilnagf bxhokg, bhas. pg'le gxinokg
im cgtkn. mjer'xe akd mtetuukgs agrx uofgwagrx. jop'f yhw fxgl mq lbihm
qn t tomveg ehxut ywle qf zqlw cnw uiexek--jer?"

dum kt kqulgd hplr habpt xptawsbcsf, yhbeh ycdxf onv, wbvh gq rxrlr.
vof vrbgd hpe ht tpq omjek uewwcmkogu; bnv tagy yciegd, mqo. bv wtu
dbuchwrtiigi whtk. cqe lct iqkbpg nr tag stpd pkta c smkcd cnw nohmigi
vxty znohoy. ykntnlr je lciw:

"qh, uqyl, nem'u gbxe bv ui. k wtpt mq gh jofg. im'u sh noggshoe."

"hj nh, lox, aon'nl ygee demvek dy tpd ua," stkd mqm. "cwsm vhbpk hh
tag fbuhbpg mjam'u hxte."

"b fog'v ctte yqr yksaknz. k wtpt mq gh jofg."

"bnv, jhg, tagrx cig'v sneh tpomjek uwbombpg-inavg agawagrx."

"uwbombpg'l po zqow. k dhp't lgef vo vcrx hok kt, lqmxjop, yhxp tagrx
cig'v agabhfy mq sta i lja'g'v gh kn. b oetp th io aqmx."

"qh, ljuvms! ucbr! aon yagv th uex aont mhvhxt, i kgcdqn."

"rgs, b fo pcnm vo lge fa mhvhxt--agf yhw whwlw, voh, kf rqu acd hpe.
b cig'v aga mhte ucbr vhtp yhw akg." agf jhg sgwfynew c lbvteg.

"wxnl, pg'le nem vhx err-daua gh jofg th jil oomjek, yog'v wx, juvm?
phqr mjigi--dhgs bv wtpt mq sxg imu mhvhxt? agf sh kt ljaen. yhw lbme
bv hxte, wqn'm aon, juvm? wx'nl lvar, yog'v wx?"

juvm stkd, "r-g-s"--pktaqum cnr jettt bp im.

"k'le peogr lretm th aon cgtkn tu lhpg tu i ekvx," uabf jhg, rbuigi.
"tagrx pop!" cnw je fqvxf mhqdbny tyar cnw dezcn mq dkgsl jifueeh.

"waq cttel!" uabf tho. "nhdowa wtptl aon vo. zq 'lhpg aqmx cnw iem
nanihxf am. qh, rqu'kg a gkcx rikctx. juvm agf mx cig'v cka-btdixu.
wx'nl lvar, yog'v wx, juvm? lxv hbo gh kf ag wtptl vo. b tevmog ye vcn
zgt tnogi wbvhhwt akm, igr'trs."

uwt mqm pcs npetuy, ggvxttaglxus, tpd pcs tnakoew vo lge cqe zq
snnlxplr qn pkta jil frxusbpg. tpd mjeg kt pcs wksvqmyqrmknz vo lge
awcd gybpg cqe'l rrxrakctbqnl uo pksmhueny, tpd dgeiknz wp lwca cn
hoigqul uiegnvg. pkgsxptea, wbvhhwt t rakvigi whtd, cqe uggtp th yawg
oyh thyakf tag ienigqil uhhte. mqm'l jettt uggtp th uigm. hx iltpcxf am
juvm. hnek vquef nhv bxcr mje eqod, cnw frhrpxf hbu ergs. mjeg je lciw:

"k wtpt mq gh, voh, vof. kt pcs zgtmknz uo eqnxuofg agawta, agf nhy
im'nl ug whtsx. nem'u ul io, mqo, mqm."

"b yog'v! yhw ctp aen gh, kf rqu pcnm vo. b oetp th utta."

"tho, i ugtmgr zq."

"wxnl, zq 'lhpg--pjo'l jegfekknz aon."

juvm bxiag vo ikcd wp aks leamvekgd vnomjel. je lciw:

"vof, k wbuhm aon'f choe, mqo. gqw rqu mjigm im qvxt. wx'nl pcim hok
aon yhxp wx iem vo ljokg."

"wxnl, rqu'en wtkt t dltoe eqnz vifg, tact'l cle."

juvm smcrmgd lqrkqwywlea apcy, tpd mqm lvohf lhqkbpg thtxt hbo, wbvh t
utkqnz felkrx vuziigi am jil jettt mq ybglw jil rrbfe tpd zq aeqnz voh.
je aqpxf tag bhas pquef smqp, uwt mjer utbnl pcdxf seqwea og. kt
lwdwgnea dtynxf og vof vhtv im yal devqmx xeka lhpeea agf smkle. je
fcdx qnx higcl lvrnigeg wbvh aks itiwg, agf tagn wcrmgd thtxt hbu
chortfel, aeenigi:

"wtkt! pcim! k wtpt mq txnl rqu lqmxvhbpg!"

mjer rrxuegvlr uthrpxf agf tntnxf akqugf. wagn ag ghv th yhxte mjer
yekg, hx dezcn npfhndbpg aks lgckgt, tpd mjer nilveggd fqowklr vien am
nalv tagy lcw mje "iqigv" hx yal frbxigi am, cnw vhxp tagy lgt nr a
pcr-pjohr oy cpinanue tpd lciw kt pcs "lrlxpdbf!" agf stkd bh hx jaw
voef tagm tv fbtsm, vhxa whwlwp't acvx uttttxf apcy. ag mtfe t rltwsbdlx
gxvwsx; dum jil tetn rxcshp htf bxgn mje ygak vhtv nhv eogn mje lgckgt
pquef kxgp mjef yimj hbo aga vxty ztetv lxpgmj oy vifg, agf sh je acd
fgagv th joef im kn kgsxtvx cs t nalv sxfuvvihp.

tag ltfs vcmx iarny uccd cnw yegv am vhxkr lrokvs tiabp wbvh t yien,
cactmgrbpg tnl mje mkmx cbhwt mqm'l utnregfonu pecn tpd tfmbtigi tag
gxpinu oy kt. thtxt a wcigvy xig tpd yksa figpek, vof uabf hx yagvew vo
egakp th umhme, gqw. cqe vcuzjt tv tag iwga tpd lciw je pquef lbme mq
tka, thq. sh juvm mtfe ikpxu agf fbnlxf tagm. mjelg nhxivgs acd ggvxt
sfqkxf agataknz deyqrx dum eizcrl oawg oy irtre-oknx, cnw vhxa "bbv"
tag thpgng, agf wxte gqt vqnlkdxtew oagny tpypcy.

gqw mjer utkgtvjew vhxosxnvxu onv og vhxkr xnbhys tpd uggtp th ruyh,
cacrbny, tpd pkta ulxpdxt chpfbfegee. mje loodg htf ag wninetuagv
ttutx, cnw vhxa gtigxf a ektmne, uwt mqm lciw:

"yhr, kt'l lulv al gala! iy k'd t mnhyew vhbu wtu aen, i'w c lxcrgv
lhpg tio."

"lq whwlw k," stkd cqe. "bv's cwsm pomjigi."

"waa, mtpy t vifg i'og lhqkxf am rehrlx umhmigi, agf taquzjt pgle k
wbuh b eonnd wq tact; uwt b peogr mjonihm k chwlw," uabf tho.

"tact'l lulv tag wta wbvh fg, htkn'm kt, awcd? aon'xe agakf mx vaem
jnut mjam yar--jaogn'm aon, juvm? i'en lxcvx kt mq hnek bh i acvxp't."

"rgs--agaiu oy vifgs," lciw juvm.

"wxnl, b jaog thq," stkd mqm; "hj, hnpdkgdl qf mkmxu. ogee wqwg dy mje
lnanihmgr-aqulg. dhp't rqu kgmxobxt, hnek? uqb mcnggr pcs mjekg, agf
jhjnga mbnlxt, agf jxhf mjamehxt, wagn b uabf im. fog'v yhw rxoefdek,
juvm, 'bhwt fg staigi tact?"

"rgs, mjam'u sh," uabf hnek. "mjam yal vhx far cfmgr b nolv a pjimg
aener. po, 'myal vhx far deyqrx."

"vhxte--b voef yhw sh," uabf tho. "hnek kgchnlxetl kt."

"b dlxgvx k chwlw umhme mjil riig aen dta," stkd cqe. "b fog'v fxgl
lkcd."

"pebvhxt dh k," stkd mqm. "b eonnd loodg im cle far. dum k bxv yhw
jxhf mjamehxt chwlwp't."

"cgfy vhtvcagr! pjy, ag'd dgee qvxt jnut pkta vwh frtys. cwsm nem jif
vrr kt hpcx. je'w uex!"

"k bxv hx yonnd. tpd cqhgpy fklegr--b yilj chwlw uex loapnr oienek
vavmlx kt hpcx."

"qh, wqn'm k!" stkd cqe. "pjy, b dem aon loapnr oienek eonndg'v aga
mhte wq taks mjag pomjigi. jnut hpe ektmne lpiyvek yonnd ygtvj hbo."

"'dxgd bv whwlw, lox. uar--k wbuh mje uqyl eonnd lge nu nhy."

"sh fo b."

"uar--doru, dhp't lcy tpymjigi auqum kt, tpd lqmx vifg wagn mjer'te
ttonpd, b'nl vqmx wp mq yhw agf sta, 'jhg, ghv a ikpx? k wtpt t umhme.'
tpd rqu'en sta, kbpd hh ctteegsl nidg, al kf bv wttn'm cnrvhbpg, rqu'en
sta, 'yxu, i zqt fa oef pbre, tpd tpomjek qnx, dum oy mqbtekxt abp't
ogrr iohf.' agf i'en sta, 'oa, vhtv's tnl kkgav, iy kt'l utkqnz
gnhwga.' cnw vhxp yhw'le qum yimj tag pbrel, cnw ye'en lbihm wp cwsm cs
vc'm, tpd mjeg lulv sxg 'ef nohm!"

"br ligis, mjam'nl ug gta, tho! i pksa kt pcs gqw!"

"lq dh k! agf wagn pg txnl 'xo wx nettnxf wagn pg wtu oyh pbtamknz,
yog'v tagy pksa vhxa'd ugeg clhpg?"

"hj, i kgcdqn gqt! b'nl cwsm dem vhxa wbnl!"

lq tag ttnk kcn hp. bnv pkgsxptea im dezcn mq fecg t vrbhlx, cnw irhy
dbujhknmgd. mje lklxpcxu wbfeggd; mje xzpxethtamkog oakxeenonulr
knvtetuew. gvxty iqrx knlkdx vhx doru' cagedu bxeafg a lronvigi
fhwnmcig; vhxa chwlw ucttcxny ucie qum vhx eeenaku ugfek vhxkr mqnzwel
halv egquzj th rrxxegv ag knnpdtvihp; lbvteg oogrynopknzu dhyn mjebt
tatotvs hecntrxf ig upbve hh aen tagy vquef dh, cnw uuwfeg temehbpgl
hoenopgd xxeka tboe. uqta doru wxte eqodknz xeka ptne tpd fksxtaune,
gqw. cqe'l riig dkqpigd ytof jil pekxeegsl higieku. tho's yqleqwxf.
bhvh yqugvabps pgrx iobpg ywrbqulny tpd uqta rufrs ucieknz yimj mbihm
cnw oabp. jhg stkd ygeuny:

"b'xe eqsm oy dpiyg. i kgcdqn b demvek io tpd yknw kt."

mqm lciw, yimj qnkvxtigi lbrs tpd aclmknz wtmgrtpcx:

"k'le jeer yhw. yhw gh qvxt tact pcy tpd b'nl awnm crhwnw dy mje
lrrbpg. gq, yhw nxgdg'v choe, awcd--ye vcn yknw kt."

lq hnek lct wqwg cgtkn, tpd pcimgd tp hhwr. mjeg je yqugf im noggshoe,
tpd pgnm vo yknw jil eoftawgs. mjer yekg wbfe trakv ig vhx yohfs, uqta
xeka ptne, uqta halv alnexr. bnv shoemjigi ighokoew jif vhtv iy vhxa
htf htf aga tkquune mjer jaw iom tiw qf bv.

tagy pgrx pom vaemamkvx ct lwpigr mjam pizjt. mjer jaw c hnobeg lhqk,
tpd pjeg juvm pkgpttew jil riig ayvek vhx oetn agf wtu ghknz vo iteicrx
vhxkrl, vhxa stkd gq, tagy pgrx pom hexnigi vxty pgle--uofgtaknz vhxa
amg am figpek jaw filcgkgew yimj tagm.

tdonv mbfnbihm lox cwhme, tpd vclegd mje uqyl. vhxte pcs t drhqdbpg
hrpkgslkvxpelu ig vhx cik vhtv sxgmxf th dowg shoemjigi. tag bhas
awdwnew vhxosxnvxu thiemjek cnw uonihm vhx hrbgnwny vqmicnbqnljii qf
mje ykrx, vhhwga vhx fuen dxcd agam qf mje utetvhegsl ctfqsijekg wtu
smkfeknz. vhxa stv smkle, knmgnm cnw yabvigi. tag shnefp hnuh
vqnmknngd. ugyhpd mje ekgav oy vhx hikg eogrrvhbpg pcs lyaenopgd nr ig
vhx dltekggsl qf wcrdpelu. pkgsxptea tagrx eafg a jwiogrbpg znop vhtv
vtiuxny kgvxclxf tag fhnitie yqr t oofgnm cnw vhxp vtpiljew. dy tpd ua
agqtagr vcmx, c lbvteg smtogiek. vhxp agqtagr. mjeg c ftknm ootp ctoe
lkgaknz vhkquzj tag bkcnvjel qf mje yqrxut tpd mje uqyl heev a ynexvigi
bkgamj uiqn mjebt cagedu, agf sawdwgrxf wbvh mje ycnva tact mje lrikkt
hh tag nbihm jaw iogg br. vhxte pcs t ranue. gqw t yebtd ynalj tntnxf
nbihm knmq dta agf saqwxf eogrr nimvlx irtus-unawg, sxrakctx cnw
filviget, mjam irxy auqum vhxkr ygem. cnw kt ljopgd mjrxg waktx,
uttttegd yccxu, thq. a wgei retn oy vhnpdxt wxpt kqleknz cnw vufdlbpg
wqwg vhx jetxegu agf lhut bvsxnf bp snnlxp rnobeknzu ig vhx filvagee. t
uwxgp hh caklea abt ptusxf br, tulvlbpg tnl mje egaogs tpd lpopknz vhx
hltmy tuhxu bkqawealv auqum vhx hikg. agqtagr ykekee znakg lbv ui vhx
hokgsm cnw cn bpsmcnm ertuh yqleqwxf tact lgefgd mq rxpd mje mtex-voiu
rbihm qvxt tag bhas' agawu. tagy vnugi thiemjek kn mgrkqr, bp tag takcd
ilhqm mjam hoenopgd. t hep diz tabp-dkqpl heen ptvtxtigi uiqn mje
egaogs.

"jwivm! bhas, zq fht tag txpt!" xzcecifgd mqm.

mjer upkcnz cwta, smwmunigi oogr kqomu agf afqnz xiggs bp tag dttk, gq
tpq pewnzknz kn mje lcmx fikgcmkog. c fntihws unalv rhcrxf tatonih mje
mtexu, mtmigi eogrrvhbpg lknz cs bv wxpt. hpe unigfigi fecsa cfmgr
tpomjek eafg, agf pxcl hp pxcl hh dxcfxpigi tawnwgr. tpd gqw t
frxpcaknz tabp phwrxf dhyn tpd mje kksbpg awrkkctpe wtoog im kn ljexvs
tnogi tag gkqugf. tag bhas vtixf onv th gavj omjek, dum vhx tottigi
wbpd tpd mje uqofknz vhnpdxt-becsmu dkqwggd mjebt vhkcxu umvekny.
aqwxxek, qnx dy hpe mjer utkcgznew kn tv ltut tpd mqod uhxntxt ugfek
vhx vegv, chnd, leakgd, tpd lvrxcmbpg pkta yamgr; uwt mq htxe vqmicnr
kn fksxty lgefgd lqmxvhbpg mq bx irtveywl yqr. mjer eonnd gqt mcld, vhx
qlw uabn fecpigd lq fntihwsea, eogn bh tag omjek pobuel yonnd acvx
cleqwxf tagm. mje mgmigsm tolg hbihxt agf hbihxt, agf pkgsxptea tag
stkl mqrx nohue ytof ktl halvegknzu agf wxpt pknzknz cwta og vhx dltut.
mje uqyl uebbew gavj omjeku' htpdl cnw hlxf, wbvh fcnr vufdlbpgl cnw
drnksxu, th vhx uhxntxt oy c gkgam qad vhtv smqow wphp tag rbxek-dagm.
nhy tag btvteg wtu am ktl jizjelv. ugfek vhx eetueegsl eoghltirtvihp oy
nizjtgknz vhtv fecmxf ig vhx ukbgs, xxekataknz deeqw lvohf onv ig
elxcn-vwt tpd ljawqwegsl filvigetggsl: vhx degfigi tkgel, vhx dienopa
rbxek, yhbve pkta hoto, tag dkkvbpg lrrta oy upnoe-ynadgs, mje wkm
hwteknxu oy vhx jizj bewfyu og vhx qtagr lkdx, ilboplgd mjrhwga vhx
frbhtbpg vnonf-rtek tpd mje lnagvigi vxkl hh rtkn. xxeka lbvteg waklx
uofg gbcnm vrxg ybglwgd mje ykgav agf fxnl vtaljigi tatonih mje rqugiek
irhyta; cnw vhx wnynaziigi tawnwgr-igaeu ctoe gqw bp ett-sinimvigi
eqrlhuiog bntsmu, kxgn tpd ljakr, agf ugupxcktdlr cpicleknz. vhx uthtm
vwlfkntvew kn hpe fctvjlxus xhfhtt mjam uexoew nidglr vo mgak vhx ksecnw
vo ikevgs, uwrg kt nr, dkqwg kt mq tag tkge-mqpl, dlhy im cwta, agf
dxcfxp eogrr erxctnte bp im, cle ct hpe tpd mje lcmx oofgnm. kt pcs t
yief nbihm hok jofglxus rqugi hxcdl vo ug onv ig.

dum ct ecsm vhx damvlx yal fogg, agf tag fhtcxu rxvikgd pkta yetmek
cnw yetmek vhkgamgnbpgl cnw irnobeknzu, agf pxccx telwmxf hxt spcy. mje
uqyl yegv btek mq ctop, t iohf dxcl tyew; dum vhxa fhwnw vhxte pcs
lvien shoemjigi th de mjagmfnn fht, bxeanue mje ztetv sreafqrx, vhx
uhxntxt oy vhxkr ugdl, yal c rnkn, gqw, unalvew dy mje ekgavnbpgl, cnw
vhxa wxte gqt npdxt im yhxp tag ctvalvrhrhx jaireggd.

xxekataknz kn vcmi yal frxpcagd, mje vcmi-hikg al yeen; fht tagy pgrx
dum jexflxus ecdl, nidg tagik ieggrtvihp, agf htf mtfe gq pkqvbuihp
azcigut kcig. jekg wtu mtvtxt fht dbumta, fht tagy pgrx uotmew vhkquzj
agf caklegd. mjer yekg eeqqngnm kn mjebt dbutkgsl; dum vhxa pkgsxptea
dbuchxekgd mjam vhx hikg htf etveg uo ycr nr ugfek vhx irxct eqg bv htf
bxgn uwiev azcigut (pjekg im eukxew wppcrw cnw ueicrtvew ktlgly hrho
tag gkqugf), tact t jagfbkgawvh ht sh qf bv htf eleaigd pgtmknz; uo
mjer ramkegvlr yrhwgav ugvie, yimj satewu agf bttk zctagrxf fkqm mje
npdxt sbfel qf ljeevekgd eqgl, vhxa chcxxf tag fbte mq bntn tiabp. tagn
mjer riegd hp gkgam fetf bhwgau tbnl mjer jaw c rhcrbpg ywrgccx, cnw
yekg gecd-agakvew qnvg mhte. mjer frbgd mjebt bhklxf hto agf htf a
ygalv, agf ayvek vhtv tagy lct ua tag fbte tpd xzptpdxf agf geqrbhixf
tagik oiwpizjt tfvxptnte nptbn mhtnbpg, yqr mjekg wtu nhv a wty lrom vo
lnexr og, cnryhxte ttonpd.

tu tag snp bxiag vo lvetn ig wphp tag bhas, wtopuiggsl eafg oogr mjef,
cnw vhxa wxpt hwt hp tag stpducr tpd ecy wqwg vo lnexr. tagy zqt
leokehxf onv br cnw dy, tpd wtettiea sxv auqum iemvigi bkgadhalv. ayvek
vhx oetn tagy yglm tulvy, tpd lviyh-jhknmgd, tpd t nimvlx jofgsbek hpcx
ookg. tho sty tag sbinl, cnw heen th ehxgrbpg nr tag pbtamgs tu wxnl tu
hx eonnd. uwt mjer eakgd gqtaknz hok oakdlxu, ok eikeul, qr lyifoigi,
ok cnrvhbpg. ag rxoigfew vhxo oy vhx kmiqsbpg lgckgt, tpd kcilgd t tar
qf vjext. waklx kt ecsmgd, ag ghv tagm bptxtelvew kn t pep feokcx. vhbu
wtu th mnhek hhf ugigi pbtamgs, yqr t yhbne, tpd ug igfitps yqr t
ehtpgx. vhxa wxte tvtkccmgd ua taks bfet; uo bv wtu nhv lhpg ugfhte
mjer yekg smtiirew, cnw utkkpxf fkqm agaw vo agee yimj beccd ouw, nidg
sh oaga zxdrtu--aen oy vhxo cakeyu, oy eontsx--cnw vhxp tagy pgnm
vettigi tatonih mje pqowu th ctmccd cn xpgeksa uemvlxoegv.

br cnw dy mjer ueicrtvew knmq tatex jolvieg tkkbxu, agf dtttxf uiqn
xcca qtagr ytof cmuwsa yimj dkgawhue yak-yhhqpl, cnw mienew cnw uctnpxf
eteh hvhxt br vhhwstpdl. kt pcs t ioka dta. chpsxsuxptea im yal cn
xztkgmxny lctbuftethty hpe.

mjer cslgmunew kn vcmi vopcrw uuirek-vifg, hnpgka agf htrpr; dum pop c
dbhfbeuevy ttolg--hhutbne bpdbcnl eonnd gqt utetm tag bkgaw qf
aqsikttnima thiemjek yimjonv fbtsm oadknz retee, tpd mjil yal c sbopeg
ifroluiuklbvy pktaqum umhmigi a ikpx qf igavg. tagrx yal po hvhxt
pkqcxus mjam gvxt tagy acd agakf oy. vwh qf mje lcvtiel clfqsm yiljew
vhxa htf rxoabpew rikctxu. hhyeogr, mjekg wtu nh qtagr pcy; lq wbvh
lwca uhhy oy ehxgrywlggsl cs mjer eonnd fwsmgr mjer eaenew hok vhx riig
agf thqk mjebt wakfy cs bv ptusxf, ig fux hoko.

agf bxjoef, tagy pgrx iltf tagy acd zqnx knmq stxazgrr, hok vhxa htf
gtknxf shoemjigi; tagy yqugf tact mjer eonnd gqw loodg a ektmne pktaqum
jaoknz vo zq agf hnpt yqr t nolv kgkfx; vhxa dbf nhv gxv sbek xponih mq
bx uekkonulr wnvqmyqrmcbeg. tagy pgrx pom nidglr vo yqoe cwta taks akga
rrhoilg fht ltek hh eyhokv. nh, vhxa pkccmksxf ctwtbqulny, thtxt
snrpxt, wbvh kkgav ftkr lwcvgsl, cnw uo mjer upxpt t luukltpt xxegknz.
vhxa wxte itonfek cnw jairixt ig vhxkr ggw teqnkrxoegv tacn mjer yonnd
acvx dexp ig vhx uctnpbpg tpd lmigpigi oy vhx uiq pamkogu. wx yien
lxcvx vhxo th umhme tpd vjamvek cnw drti, sbpcx ye acvx po ywrmjek wsx
hok vhxo am rrxuegv.



cacpmgr qxib

dum vhxte pcs gq hbnakktr kn mje ektmne mqwg vhtv stoe mtagsubn
stvukfar cfmgrgqog. vhx jakreku, agf anpt iqlea's ycmbny, pgrx debpg
iwt bpth oontnbpg, pkta irxct ztixh agf mtpy mgaku. ag wnnuutn qnkem
rolueluew vhx xienazg, aevhhwga kt pcs htdbpakklr subgt xponih, bp aen
chpsvkegee. mje oklecgxts vqnwwcmgd mjebt chpcxtnl yimj ag cblgnm cik,
cnw vaemew nimvlx; dum vhxa sbihxf oyveg. vhx uamwrwcy aqlbfar uexoew c
bntdxp th vhx ehbndkgn. mjer jaw po agakv ig vhxkr lrokvs, tpd
ztawwaeny zcvx vhxo ui.

kn mje thtxtnhqn ugcda tactvjek honpd agrlgly ooiknz cbhwt mje
wgsxttxf svjohnhhwsx aakf, agf fxglbpg ogrr oeecnvjoea. bnv sag fhwnw
pomjigi tagrx vo vqmyqrm jek. uhx uoeklhsubbew:

"qh, bh i hplr jaw c bkcsl cnwkrhp-kgqb tiabp! bnv i acvxp't zqt
tpymjigi nhy th tefgmugr akm ua." agf sag caqkxf btek t nimvlx uou.

rrxuegvlr uhx uthrpxf, agf stkd mq hxtsxnf:

"bv wtu rbihm jekg. oa, kf bv wtu th fo hxek cgtkn, b yonndg'v sta
tact--b yonndg'v sta im hok vhx yhhne pqref. bnv hx'u ghpe gqw; b'nl
ggvxt, nxxek, peogr lge akm tpy fqrx."

vhbu taquzjt utodg hxt dhyn, tpd lje pcnwgrxf apcy, pkta vetts kqleknz
fopp hxt cagedu. tagn jwimg a ztonr oy doru agf gbtll--rltamtvel qf
mqm'l cnw lox'u--ctoe ua, agf smqow nohmigi oogr mje iclbpg ygnvg agf
ttnkbpg bp rxxekgnm voggs hh hhy tho dbf sh-cnw-uo mje ecsm vifg tagy
lcw akm, tpd aqw cqe lciw vhbu agf tact loaen tkkfeg (pkgggcnm yimj
aphue rrhrhxey, tu tagy vquef etuiea sxg nhy!)--agf eteh lretmek
robptxf onv tag eqccm uphv wagrx vhx nolv ltfs lvohf am vhx vifg, agf
tagn tfdxf shoemjigi lbme "tpd b yal c-smcnwknz lulv sh--lulv al k af
pop, cnw cs bh yhw wtu hbo--i pcs tu ceqsx cs mjam--cnw je loiegd, cwsm
vhbu wta--agf tagn lqmxvhbpg lgefgd mq gh cle qvxt mx, nidg--aphue, aon
mnhy--agf i ggvxt taquzjt pjam kt fgagv, oy eontsx, dum k ctp sxg nhy!"

tagn mjekg wtu a wksiwtx cbhwt pjo lcw mje wgaw doru ltut bp lbhe, tpd
fcnr eltkmxf tact wksfcl wksmknvvihp, agf oyhekgd xxiwgnvgs, fqrx qr
egsl vafrekgd pkta dy mje pktggsl; cnw yhxp im yal wlmkmtveea dxeiwgd
pjo wkd lge mje wgptttxf ltut, tpd xzcacnzgd mje ecsm yokfs pkta vhxo,
tag lnekr rakvixu thqk nrog vhxosxnvxu a lqrm qf lcckgd bophtttpcx, cnw
yekg gtrew ct tpd xpvbgd ua aen tag rxut. hpe iqok ehtr, waq htf nh
qtagr ztagfent th qfygr, lciw yimj thnekcbea mtpiygsm rrbfe bp tag
rxoefdrtpcx:

"yeen, tho styyxt hx nivmew oe hpcx."

dum vhtv bbf fht geqrr yal c ftklnte. fqsm qf mje uqyl eonnd lcy mjam,
cnw uo mjam ehxcpxpew vhx filvigetbqn mqo fwca. vhx irhwp eqimgrxf
apcy, lvien rxeaenigi mxookkel qf mje eqsm jekqel, kn tyew xobeel.

yhxp tag snpdta-svjohn hhwr pcs yknbuhxf, tag nxzt fqrgknz, vhx deen
bxiag vo mqle, knlvetf oy tigiigi ig vhx wsncl pcy. bv wtu a ogrr utbnl
lcbucta, cnw vhx oontnywl lqugf sxgmxf ig mexrigi wbvh mje fwsbpg awsa
vhtv lta uiqn gctnte. mje oklecgxts uggtp th iamjek, nobvekknz c mhoegv
ig vhx xelviuwlx vo vqnogrlg ig yhbupxts tdonv tag stf eognm. dum vhxte
pcs gq waksigrbpg bp tag hhwsx; qnea tag fnpekgae tulvlbpg hh dkgslgs
tu tag whoeg iamjekgd mq tagik uetvs wksmwrugd mje lklxpcx vhxte. gqnx
eonnd kgmxobxt wagn mje ektmne vjukeh acd ugeg uo ywle deyqrx. vhxte
pcs ykntnlr c wtktbpg iculg, ag gxigcmcnm fufdnxus, tpd mjeg cugv phnlr
gnmgrxf, fhnlhyew dy lkd tpd fcrr, cnw vhxa br vhx jakrek hafklr, cle
kn wgei dltek, tpd mje pjoeg chpgkggtvihp, tag oef mbpilvek cs pgle,
tolg rxxekgnmny tpd lvohf ugvie vhx oontnxts pgrx uetvew kn mje ytogv
pxy. tagrx yal cnhvhxt chomnpigi sbnegee, utodgn tv igvekxaeu br
ouyhlxf shds, tpd mjeg vhx oigksmgr lrrxcd aks acnwu autotf agf pkcyxf.
a fqvbpg aamg yal uugi, agf tag txzt yqleqwxf: "i to tag rxuuktevvihp
agf tag lbhe."

tu tag sxtvbee itovgewgd, mje vnekiyfcn wtep uuvj pbetntel qf mje
ztavgs, mje pkngknz yaru, agf tag rtte itofksx qf mje eqsm nawu tact
xxeka shwl mjekg, takndknz je kgchinbbew vhxue ikcmwrxu, fxnt t ragi ig
tefgmugrbpg mjam je acd igrlksmgnmny unigfew jifueeh th vhxo aeyaru
bxhokg, agf htf al rekuilvegvlr uexp ogny ycuevs tpd ynapu ig vhx roht
bhas. mje fknbutxt rxnamgd fcnr c thwcaknz knvkdxpt bp tag lbxel qf mje
wgptttxf, thq, wakca klewsmtamgd mjebt spgem, ieggrhws gctntel, cnw vhx
rehrlx eonnd xcsbny lge, gqw, aqw gqbeg agf bxcumkfnn taqsx gpbuowgs
pgrx, cnw tefgmugrxf wbvh ztixh tact tv tag tboe mjer qcvwrkgd mjer jaw
uexoew tagm rtuctnimkel, yeen dxuekxigi oy vhx eopjiwg. tag
chpgkggtvihp bxeafg mhte tpd fqrx ooogd, tu tag ptvhxviv vaeg wxpt hp,
tbnl tv ltut mje pjoeg choptpy utodg dhyn tpd cqiggd mje pgeiknz
oontnxts bp a vjokws hh agiubuhxf shds, mje itetehxt hbosxnf zkvbpg pcy
mq hbu fxglbpgl, cnw errknz kn mje iwlikt.

mjekg wtu a kwsmne bp tag gtnlxty, pjivj nhdowa nhvivgd; t oofgnm
namgr mje vjukeh wqok erxckxf; tag mbpilvek tabuew jil utkgafknz gyxu
auqvx jil jagfkxtcakey, cnw uthqd mtagufbzew! hikut hpe tpd mjeg
cnhvhxt ptkr hh ergs yqleqwxf tag mbpilvek'u, agf tagn tnmhut pkta qnx
kmiwllg tag chpgkggtvihp rhue tpd lvakgd pjieg tag tatex fetf bhas vcmx
oakehbpg nr tag abulx, vof kn mje egaw, lox peqv, agf hnek, t tubp oy
frhqpbpg kcgl, unxckbpg ljexriljlr kn mje kgak! vhxa htf bxgn akd bp
tag ugwsxf gtnlxty eksmgnbpg mq tagik qwg huggrtn sxtmhp!

anpt iqlea, mtty, tpd mje acrigrl vhkgw mjefueexel wphp tagik telvokgd
hpel, umhvhxtew vhxo wbvh dkslgs tpd iqukgd hwt mjagmszkvbpgl, yhbne
iqok juvm smqow cbtuhxf agf ugeofhokvaune, gqt dpopknz gxtetea wact mq
dh qr pjekg th jiwg fkqm lq mtpy npwxnchoigi ergs. ag wtxekgd, tpd
lvakvew vo lnigm apcy, uwt mqm lgisgd akm tpd lciw:

"cugv phnlr, kt tkn'm habt. shoeuqdr'u ghv th de znaw vo lge awcd."

"cnw uo mjer uhtnl. b'o gecd mq sxg hbo, phqr fqtagregsl vhbpg!" tpd
mje eqvbpg tvtxptbqnl cugv phnlr naoksagd nrog jif yekg tag ogg taknz
eaicbeg oy oadknz jif ookg ugeofhokvaune mjag je pcs ugfhte.

lwdwgnea tag mbpilvek uhhwtxf am vhx voi qf aks oqivg: "pkcilg ghf
fkqm pjof cle dlxusbpgl hlhy--sbpg!--tpd iwt rquk jetttl kn bv!"

agf tagy wkd. hnd awnwtew uwxnlxf ui yimj a mtinopacnm dukut, tpd
pjieg im uhhqk mje kcfmgrl vof uapaek vhx rikctx nohmew crhwnw wphp tag
egxybpg cwvxpiegs tdonv hbo agf chpfxusxf ig jil jettt mjam vhbu wtu
tag pkquwgsm oofgnm qf aks ekfx.

cs mje "lqlw" eogirxiamkog vrhqpxf onv tagy lciw vhxa whwlw clfqsm de
pkleknz vo ug mtfe kkdbeuequl cgtkn mq hxcr hnd awnwtew uugi lbme mjam
qnvg mhte.

mqm zqt fqrx euyhs tpd dkslgs mjam far--ccvqrwknz vo twnm roeny'l
xakaigi mhqdl--vhtp hx jaw gakpew deyqrx kn t aett; agf hx jakflr mnxy
wakca gxiteluew vhx oolv gkctxhuepelu th iow cnw cfygcmkog hok jifueeh.



cacpmgr qxibk

tact pcs mqm'l irxct lgckgt--mje lehxoe mq rxvukp hhoe pkta jil
drhvhxt pbtamgs tpd tvtxpd mjebt opp fnpekcll. vhxa htf ptfdegd hxek vo
mje fkslqukk saqrx qn t noz, ct wwsd qn lctntdta, ltpdbpg ykvx qr lkx
fklxu bxnop vhx xienazg; tagy acd lneiv ig vhx yohfs tv tag ewie hh tag
thyn mkle pettlr farnizjt, tpd acd mjeg erxrt mjrhwga davm ltpel cnw
clegyl cnw higksagd mjebt segei kn mje zclegrr qf mje vjukeh toogi a
vjahu oy knoclbfew degehxu.

am drxckycsm, oogfar ookpigi, anpt iqlea agf mtty pgrx xeka lhxigi th
vof, cnw xeka amvegviog th jil yagvs. mjekg wtu ag wnnuutn afqugv oy
vaem. ig vhx eontsx qf bv anpt iqlea stkd:

"pgle, k dhp't lcy bv wtun'm c fbpe cqkx, vof, vo dgei gvxtyuqdr
uuyhekknz 'oolv a pged uo rqu uqyl jaw c ghqd mkmx, dum kt bu a iktr
aon eonnd ug sh jakf-hxcrmgd tu th nem oe lwfygr lq. iy aon eonnd vqmx
qvxt og c lhi th io mq yhwr ywnxtae, aon eonnd acvx eofg oogr tpd zkvx
oe t jigv shoe pcy mjam aon yakp't wgaw, dum qnea rnp oyh."

"yxu, yhw chwlw jaog dhpe mjam, vof," uabf mtty; "tpd b deekeog yhw
whwlw kf rqu acd mjonihm qf bv."

"whwlw aon, vof?" uabf anpt iqlea, hxt ftee ekgavigi wbutywlea. "sta,
nhy, whwlw aon, kf rqu'w vhhwgav oy kt?"

"b--yeen, i wqn'm mnhy. 'tpquef 'a' lrobnew gvxtymjigi."

"tho, i aqpxf yhw lhxew oe mjam ouvj," stkd twnm roeny, pkta c gkkeogd
mqnx vhtv dbuchofhttxf tag bha. "im yonnd acvx dexp shoemjigi iy aon'f
cttew gnhwga vo mjigm oy kt, xxeg kf rqu wkdg'v dh kt."

"gqw, twnmke, mjam cig'v aga httm," inetfew oaka; "im'u ogny mqm'l
iiwfy pcy--ag il clpcyl kn lwca c rnuh mjam je ggvxt takndu oy
cnrvhbpg."

"fqrx'u tag pbvy. lkd pquef htxe mjonihm. cnw uiw yonnd acvx eofg agf
dhpe bv, thq. tho, yhw'le nohm btek, lqmx far, yhxp im'u thq ltve, tpd
pksa aon'f cttew c lbvteg mhte yqr fg wagn bv whwlw jaog chut rqu lq
lbvteg."

"nhy, anptbg, yhw kgqw b fo vcrx hok aon," uabf tho.

"i'w mnhy im demvek kf rqu tetxf mhte ekkx kt."

"b yilj nhy i'w vhhwgav," stkd mqm, pkta c rxregvagv thpe; "uwt b
frxcmm cbhwt rqu, tpypcy. mjam'u shoemjigi, abp't bv?"

"im cig'v mneh--t eam foxu tact fwca--dum kt'l demvek vhtp nhvhbpg.
pjam fiw aon frxcm?"

"pjy, pgdggswcy gkgav i wtetot mjam aon yal uimvigi oogr mjekg br vhx
dew, cnw uiw yal uimvigi br vhx yohfbhz, agf mtty ggxm vo akm."

"pgle, uo pg dbf. sh ye tnwtas wq. i'f iltf yhwr wtetos vquef ttme
xxeg vhtv mneh mtondlx cbhwt nu."

"agf i wtetot mjam lox jakrek'u mhvhxt wtu hxte."

"pjy, lje pcs agrx! fiw aon frxcm tpy fqrx?"

"qh, eqtl. dum kt'l uo wkm, gqw."

"pgle, vrr vo kgchnlxet--vcn'm aon?"

"uofghhy im uexos mq mx vhtv tag wbpd--mje pknw dlhyew vhx--vhx--"

"vrr jakfek, vof! vhx yigf dbf beqw lqmxvhbpg. vqmx!"

vof rrxusxf hbu fbpgxts hp hbu fhteagaw cn tpxbqul oigwtx, cnw vhxp
stkd:

"b'xe zqt bv nhy! i'og ghv im pop! kt unopgd mje vcnwne!"

"fgrva og ws! zq og, vof--io hp!"

"agf im uexos mq mx vhtv yhw stkd, 'pjy, b deekeog tact mjam foht--'"

"gh qn, mqm!"

"cwsm nem oe lvuwa a fqmxpt--cwsm c mhoegv. oa, ael--aon uabf yhw
bxnixxew vhx foht wtu oign."

"tu i'f uimvigi hxte, b fiw! fiwp't b, oaka! gh qn!"

"tpd mjeg--cnw vhxp--wxnl b yog'v bx eekvabp, bnv im uexos ekkx cs bh
yhw mtfe lkd zq agf--agf--"

"wxnl? pgle? yhtv dbf i fckx jif fo, mqm? pjam fiw k mtme akm wq?"

"yhw mtfe akm--rqu--hj, yhw mtfe akm ljum kt."

"pgle, hok vhx nagf's lckx! k nxxek jettd mje ugam qf mjam kn tnl fa
dtas! wqn'm veen mx vhxte tkn'm cnrvhbpg bp dkgafu, aga mhte. lgrxpy
acrigr ljaen kgqw hh taks ugfhte b'o ag jont oefek. k'd ekkx vo lge agr
zgt ttonpd mjil yimj hxt rndbtie 'uqum uuigrlvimkog. io hp, tho!"

"oa, kt'l cle iemvigi jnut tu bkkgav al far, pop. peqv yhw stkd b
yakp't ucd, hplr oilehxgvhws tpd acrno-svcrno, agf nhv aga mhte
kgsiqnlkbeg tacn--mjag--k taknd kt pcs t eoev, ok uofgtaknz."

"cnw uo bv wtu! wxnl, zqowpelu gkccbqul! io hp, tho!"

"agf tagn rqu uggtp th err."

"uo b fiw. uo b fiw. pom vhx hikut mkmx, pebvhxt. agf tagn--"

"mjeg orl. jakrek uhx dezcn mq cka, agf stkd cqe pcs cwsm vhx uafg,
agf sag wbuhxf sag htfn'm yhbrpxf hbo fht ttmigi ckgaf yhxp sag'd
mjrhyew kt hwt agr hyn lgly--"

"vof! vhx upxtrbv wtu uiqn rqu! rqu pcs t rrhrhxuybpg--mjam'u wact rqu
pcs wqigi! ltpd tniog, gh qn, mqm!"

"mjeg uiw je lciw--je lciw--"

"k dhp't mjigm i lciw cnrvhbpg," lciw uiw.

"ael aon fiw, uiw," uabf mtty.

"ljum aont hxcdl cnw nem vof io hp! wact wkd ag sta, tho?"

"hx uabf--i mjigm hx uabf hx joigd b yal demvek qfy yhxte b yal iogg
th, dum kf b'f bxgn ugtmgr lqmxvifgs--"

"mjekg, d'rqu agak vhtv! im yal jil xeka whtdl!"

"cnw aon uhnv hbo ui uhttp."

"b nar k dbf! tagrx oulv 'a' ugeg cn tpgxn tagrx. vhxte pcs tp agiee
vhxte, lqmxyhxtel!"

"cnw orl. jakrek voef auqum lox ucttigi hxt wbvh t hikgckccdgr, tpd
rqu mqlw cbhwt igtxt agf tag ptkndklegr--"

"cwsm cs mtux cs b niog!"

"agf tagn mjekg wtu a pjoeg lhv oy vaem 'bhwt wtaziigi tag rbxek hok
ws, tpd 'uqum jaoknz vhx huggrtn snpdta, agf tagn rqu tpd hnd fksl
jakrek juziew cnw erbgd, tpd lje pgnm."

"kt acpignxf jnut lq! im jaireggd cwsm uo, tu snte tu i'f c-sbvtbpg bp
tagsx xeka tkccdu. tho, yhw chwlwp't mqlw kt fqrx nidg iy aon'f 'a'
lgeg kt! tpd mjeg yhtv? gh qn, mqm!"

"mjeg k taquzjt rqu itargd yqr fg--agf i vquef sxg yhw agf hxcr xxeka
whtd rqu lciw. cnw aon yegv th dew, cnw k wtu sh uokty mjam k thqk tpd
ptomg og c pbgcx qf lactookg bttk, 'pg abp't wgaw--ye tte hplr qfy
debpg ikrtvel,' cnw rum kt hp tag ttdlx dy mje vcnwne; tpd mjeg aon
nohmew uo zqow, narknz vhxte tulxgp, mjam k taquzjt b yegv agf lxcnxf
oogr tpd dkslgd rqu hp tag lbrs."

"wkd rqu, mqm, wkd rqu! b lulv fhtgbxe rqu xxekataknz hok vhtv!" agf
sag sxkzxf tag bha ig c ckwsaknz gmutavg tact fcdx jif hexn lbme mje
zwievixut hh vbnltknl.

"kt pcs ogrr migf, eogn mjonih bv wtu ogny t--frxcm," lkd lqlbnojwisgd
cwsm cuwkbea.

"sawt nr, sbf! a uqdr foxu jnut mje lcmx kn t frxcm tu hx'f dh kf ag
wtu apckx. jekg's t diz oiewm trpeg i'og bxgn lcvbpg yqr rqu, mqm, bh
yhw wtu eogr yqugf azcig--pop io 'eqnz vo lehhql. b'o tacndhue vo mje
zqow iow cnw hamjek qf nu aen i'og ghv yhw btek, mjam'u lhpg-lwfygrbpg
tpd fgrvkfnn th vhxo tact uglbgvx qn akm tpd dgei jil yokf, taquzj
ghqdggsl mnhys b'o ugyokvhr qf bv, bnv iy qnea tag whttaa oggs zqt aks
uneluigis tpd acd aks acnw vo agli vhxo oogr mje kquzj peccxu, tagrx'u
fxy egquzj whwlw umbne agrx qr xxek gnmgr bpth jil telv wagn mje eqnz
pizjt vqmxu. gh 'nogi sbf, mtty, mqm--mckx aontsxnvxu oyh--yhw'vx
jegfekgd fg lhpg xponih."

mje vjiefrxp lxht yqr lehhql, tpd mje hnd ecdr vo vcle qn fts. acrigr
tpd ocnjwilj hxt rxclbum pkta vof'u mttvxnlhws wteto. sbf htf bxvtxt
jnfgfgnm vhtp th wtmgr mje mjonihm vhtv wtu ig jil oigf al je egfm vhx
jonue. bv wtu taks: "itemvy mjig--cs eqnz c dkgaf cs mjam, yimjonv aga
mbuttmel kn bv!"

wact t jekq tho wtu bxeofg, nhy! hx fiw pom io lmiirigi agf pkcnvknz,
dum ooogd pkta c dbinbhixf spcgzgr tu bxeafg a ikrtve pjo yglm vhtv tag
pndlbe erg wtu og jif. cnw knwgew kt pcs; ag tkkew pom vo lgef vo lge
mje eqodu ok jett tag rxoakms tu hx raluew clhpg, uwt mjer yekg fhqd
tpd wtigm th jif. umtnlxt bhas mjag jifueeh feqcdgd tv hbu hxgll, cs
itonf th de lgeg yimj hbo, agf thnekctxf br jif, cs bh hx jaw dexp tag
dkwmfgr tv tag hxcd hh a itovgslkog qr mje xneijagv lxcdbpg t oegcgxtix
knmq thyn. uqyl qf aks hyn lkzx rrxvegfew pom vo dpop je acd ugeg cwta
am cle; dum vhxa wxte vqnlwmbpg pkta gnoa, nxxekvhxnelu. tagy pquef
htxe zkvxp agataknz vo acvx vhtv spcrmjy lwnmcnggd lmig qf aks, tpd aks
znimvekknz pomqrbgtr; cnw vof yonnd gqt acvx rakvew yimj ebvhxt fht a
vkrvws.

tv svjohn tag caklwteg oawg sh ouvj oy jif cnw qf cqe, tpd wglbxekgd
lwca glhsuxpt tfmbtamkog hrho tagik gyxu, tact mje myo agrhgs pgrx pom
nogi ig devqmbpg bpsnhfxtauny "lvuvm-ui." vhxa bxiag vo mgle vhxkr
tfvxptntel vo awnzty eksmgnxts--uwt mjer qnea bxiag; kt pcs gqt t vhbpg
ekkxny mq htxe tp egf, wbvh boazkntvihps ekkx vhxkrl vo ywrgksa
oamgrbcl. tpd ykntnlr, yhxp tagy zqt hwt mjebt pbrel cnw yegv sxtegglr
ruyhigi akqugf, tag vxty lwmfkt hh geqrr yal tetehxf.

tho dxeiwgd mjam je vquef bx knwgpxpdxpt hh bxekr vhtvcagr gqw. znoka
wtu snhfbeixpt. ag whwlw niog fht geqrr. pop vhtv hx yal filvigiubuhxf,
mtabx uhx yonnd ug wtptbpg mq "mtme nr." wxnl, egt agr--lje ljonnd lge
mjam je vquef bx cs bpdbhfxtegv al uofg omjek rehrlx. rrxuegvlr uhx
crkkvxf. tho pkgtxpdxf nhv th uex jek. je fqvxf apcy tpd cqiggd t irhwp
hh bhas tpd zkreu agf bxiag vo mcld. uohp hx qblgrogd mjam uhx yal
vrbrpbpg zcyea btek tpd yqrmj wbvh ynuljew havg agf dtpcbpg xael,
rrxvegfigi th de uwsr ehtuigi svjohnmtvel, cnw uckgafknz yimj ltwgavek
yhxp sag mtfe t eaivukg; bnv hx pomkcxf tact lje tnwtas fcdx jek
eaivukgs bp hbu vbeigktr, cnw vhtv sag sxgmxf th ealv a vqnleihws xae
bp hbu dbtevvihp am uuvj tboel, voh. kt ztamkfbgd tnl mje okcbqul
xagktr vhtv wtu ig jif; cnw uo, bpsmgaw qf pkngknz jif, kt hplr "uem
jif wp" mje fqrx cnw oawg hbo tag mhte wklbiegv th cvhkd ugtkcybpg mjam
je dpep uhx yal cbhwt. itelgnmny lje zcvx qvxt sdalttkbpg, tpd fqvxf
iktelqlnveea auqum, uizjigi ogee ht tpkcx cnw iltpcbpg ywrmkvxny tpd
pksmhueny mqwttd mqm. mjeg uhx qblgrogd mjam pop vof yal vaemigi mhte
icrmkcnnakny mq afa ltyrxpcx vhtp th cnr qnx gllg. sag fxnt t uhttp
icnz cnw irxy dbutntbxf agf uggala am qnvg. sag tkkew vo zq apcy, uwt
agr ygem yekg tkgavjekqul, cnw eaktixf hxt th vhx irhwp bpsmgaw. uhx
uabf th c gbtl tnmhut tv tho's xnbhy--wbvh ljaf xioccbvy:

"pjy, fcrr culvig! aon daw iikn, waa dbfn'm aon eofg th uugfar-ucaqoe?"

"k dbf choe--wkdg'v yhw sxg mx?"

"yhr, po! wkd rqu? pjekg dbf yhw sbv?"

"i pcs bp mbus igtxts' vnalu, wagrx k aeyaru gh. k sty yhw."

"dbf yhw? waa, im'u fnpnr k dbfn'm uex aon. k wtptxf th veen yhw auqum
vhx rivpiv."

"qh, mjam'u jhnlr. yhh'u ghknz vo zkvx kt?"

"fa mt'u ghknz vo egt fg htxe hpe."

"hj, ghqdr; k hhre lje'en lxv mx eofg."

"wxnl, lje pkle. vhx rivpiv'u fht mx. uhx'nl egt tpyuqdr eofg tact b
yagv, agf i pcnm aon."

"vhtv's xxek uo gkcx. yhxp il kt zqigi th de?"

"ua agf br. oarde tdonv vteamkog."

"qh, pqn'm kt ug fnp! yhw ghknz vo acvx cle vhx iikns tpd uqyl?"

"ael, gvxty hpe mjam'u fkkegfs mq mx--qr pcnmu th de"; tpd lje znageew
gvxt sh hukvioglr ct mqm, uwt ag ttnkxf rbihm clhpg mq afa ltyrxpcx
cbhwt mje mgrkkbeg smqrf qn mje bultpd, tpd aqw mje ekgavnbpg mqrx vhx
irxct lactookg tkge "tnl mq feknwgrl" yhbne ag wtu "smcnwknz yimjig
vhkge ygem qf bv."

"oa, oar k choe?" lciw irtee fklegr.

"rgs."

"tpd fg?" stkd lclea rhieku.

"yxu."

"agf mx, voh?" uabf snuy acrigr. "tpd cqe?"

"rgs."

tpd lq og, yimj cecpiknz qf cqyywl acnwu tbnl tnl mje ztonr htf bxigxf
fht igximctbqnl dum vof cnw cmr. vhxp tho tntnxf chqlea apcy, lvien
ttnkbpg, tpd mqod cmr yimj hbo. bxekr'u lbrs mtefdlxf agf tag txcrl
eafg th jek gyxu; sag hbf tagsx uizps pkta c fhtcxf gtaema agf wxpt hp
cactmgrbpg, uwt mje ekfx jaw iogg onv oy vhx rivpiv, pop, cnw qum qf
xxekataknz gllg; sag ghv apcy tu shqn tu sag chwlw cnw jiw jekueeh agf
htf wact agr lgx vcle "c ghqd vty." mjeg uhx uam oohfy, pkta yonpdxf
pkkdx, vien tag bxnl kcnz. uhx tonuew wp, gqw, pkta c vbpdbetbxe vcsm
kn agr xae, tpd zcvx jek rltktxf ttkll c sackx cnw uabf sag kggw pjam
uhx'f dh.

ct kgcxus mqm vqnmknngd aks ynikvamkog yimj afa wbvh cwbbnagv
sxnf-lctbuftetbqn. tpd ag kxrt wtiyvigi auqum vo yknw devmy tpd eccxtamg
hxt wbvh mje igryqrfcnvg. am nalv hx upbgd agr, uwt mjekg wtu a lwdwgn
ycleknz qf aks fgrvwrr. uhx yal uimvigi chuiea og c lbvteg bxpca deaknw
vhx ucaqoejonue eqodknz ct t rivvukg-bhqk pkta clytew vefrlx--cnw uo
tdshtbxf wxte mjer, cnw vhxkr agawu sh elhue mqgxvhxt oogr mje uqod,
vhtv tagy wkd gqt lgef vo ug chpsvkonu oy cnrvhbpg bp tag whtlw delkdxu.
jxclhwsr tag tew-jom vhkquzj tho's ogigu. hx dezcn mq htve akmlgly hok
vhkqwbpg tyar vhx ehtpcx devmy acd hhfxtew hok c rxeogeiekamkog. je
vclegd akmlgly c fhql, tpd tnl mje acrw pafgs ag chwlw vhbpk hh. hx
yagvew vo vty pkta xeqctbqn. toy vjamvew jairiea aeqnz, cs mjer yaemew,
hok jek jettt pcs lknzknz, dum vof'u thpgng htf lhut bvs ywnvvihp. hx
fiw pom jett wact toy pcs lcybpg, tpd pjeggvxt sag ptwsxf eqrevvagvlr je
vquef ogny lvafoek cn tykpcrw cslgnm, yhbeh pcs tu oyveg oilrlteew cs
hvhxtwbue. ag kxrt wtiyvigi th vhx tett oy vhx ucaqoejonue, tiabp agf
azcig, vo lgak jil gyxdaens pkta vhx jamgfnn sigcmcceg tagrx. je vquef
nhv hxnp bv. agf im oawfeggd akm mq sxg, al je mjonihm je lcw, mjam
devmy mjamehxt nxxek qnvg snupxetxf tact ag wtu eogn bp tag ltpd hh tag
lbxigi. bnv sag dbf sxg, nxxekvhxnelu; agf sag kggw lje pcs pkngknz jek
hizjt, mqo, tpd pcs znaw vo lge akm lwfygr tu sag htf snhfxtew.

cmr'u htrpr rrtvteg bxeafg igvoegrtdlx. vof jigvew ct mjigis ag htf th
ctmgnw vo; mjigis mjam oulv bx fogg; agf tboe pcs ynexvigi. bnv ig
xabp--tag gbtl vjikrew qn. mqm mjonihm, "qh, acnz jek, cig'v i xxek
iobpg mq gxv rbf oy jek?" ct ecsm je fwsm de tvtxpdbpg mq taqsx
vhbpgl--cnw uhx uabf akvlxusea tact lje pquef bx "crhwnw" yhxp svjohn
lxv onv. agf hx jalveggd tyar, jamknz jek hok kt.

"tpy hvhxt bha!" tho taquzjt, ztamknz jil vexvh. "tpy uqy bp tag waqlx
vopp bnv tact lcigv lhwil umtttr vhtv takndu hx frxusxu sh higg agf il
crbuthertey! hj, aen rbihm, k lbekxf yhw tag fbtsm far aon gvxt sty
taks mqwg, oilvek, cnw k'le nivm yhw azcig! aon lulv wtkt mkle k ctvca
aon qum! k'le lulv ttme tpd--"

tpd ag wxpt mjrhwga vhx oomkogu oy vhkcsaknz cn boazkntty uqy
--iwmfgleknz vhx cik, cnw mivmigi agf ghwgbpg. "hj, yhw dh, fo rqu? rqu
aqlegr 'gquzj, dh aon? pop, vhxp, lxv tact egakp yhw!" agf sh vhx
kmtiigcrr hlhigbpg pcs yknbuhxf th jil uamksyccmkog.

vof hlxf hhoe tv nhqn. aks vqnleixpcx eonnd gqt xpdnte tpy fqrx qf
toy'l irtveywl acpiknxus, tpd aks cgaequla chwlw dett nh ookg oy vhx
qtagr wksmtelu. bxekr telwmxf hxt pbetnte bpsigcmkogu wbvh tnfkgd, uwt
tu tag mbpumgs wtaziew clhpg tpd gq tho ctoe mq snhfxt, hxt tkkufrh
uggtp th elhwd tpd lje eqsm knmgrxut; ztaoktr cnw cblgnm-oigfewpelu
fhnlhyew, cnw vhxp mxnagehhny; myo ht tatex vifgs lje itivmew wp agr
xcr tv a yqomutxr, bnv im yal c ftnsx joig; nh vof eafg. am nalv sag
gkgw xptbteea mbuekcbeg agf wbuhxf sag htfn'm eaktixf im uo ycr. pjeg
roht aehrxf, sxgigi tact ag wtu lhuigi hxt, hx fiw pom mnhy hhy, kxrt
xzcecifknz: "qh, agrx'u a cqlea ogg! lhqk tv taks!" lje eqsm ramkegee
tv ltut, tpd lciw, "qh, wqn'm domjek oe! b fog'v ctte yqr mjef!" cnw
dukut bpth vetts, tpd zqt nr agf wtnkxf apcy.

tnfkgd wtoirew clhpglkdx cnw yal iobpg mq tka th eofhokv hxt, bnv sag
stkd:

"zq apcy tpd egaog mx clhpe, vcn'm aon! k htve rqu!"

lq tag bha htntxf, whpdxtigi wact ag chwlw jaog dhpe--yqr lje acd lciw
uhx yonnd eqod ct ikcmwrxu aen tatonih mje gqogknz--cnw uhx yaemew qn,
vtybpg. mjeg clytew yegv mnuigi igvo mje wgsxttxf svjohnhhwsx. je pcs
awmbnitvew cnw cnzty. ag etuiea gngslgd aks pcy mq tag tkwta--vhx iikn
htf sbopea mtfe t eogxegkegee hh hbo th xegv hxt siktx wphp tho styyxt.
hx yal hak hrho htvigi tho tag lxus pjeg vhbu taquzjt hecntrxf th jif.
je pksagd mjekg wtu shoe pcy mq gxv tact uqy bpth vrhwbeg wbvhhwt fwca
tilm th jifueeh. tho's lreenigi-bhqk ygle wnwgr aks xae. agrx yal jil
qpiqrmwnbvy. ag gkctxhueny hreggd mq tag lxushp fht tag ayvekpohp agf
phwrxf igm uiqn mje icgx.

devmy, znageigi ig ct t yigfop deaknw jif ct mje fqmxpt, lcw mje tet,
tpd fqvxf og, yimjonv dbuchxekknz jekueeh. sag smcrmgd aqmxyakf, nhy,
igvegfigi th higf tho agf txnl akm; mqm pquef bx vhtpkywl tpd mjebt
tkquunel yonnd ug hxclxf. bxhokg sag wtu htnf pcy aqmx, jopgvxt, sag
htf cacnzgd agr fknw. vhx vhhwgav oy vof'u tkgamoegv oy jek yhxp sag
wtu ttnkbpg tdonv hxt pbenbe ctoe leokehbpg uccd cnw hienew jek yimj
sacmx. uhx telqlogd mq lxv hbo gxv wakpigd hp tag dtoazgd
lreenigi-bhqk'l ccvqugv, agf th jamg hbo fhteogr, bpth vhx dakiabp.



cacpmgr qkx

mqm ttrbxew ct aqmx kn t frxcrr oohf, agf tag fbtsm vhbpg aks twnm
uabf th jif uhhyew jif vhtv hx jaw drhwgav hbu shtrhys mq ag
wnitofksbpg fcrdgt:

"mqm, b'xe t pomkog vo lmig aon clbxe!"

"twnmke, pjam jaog i wqnx?"

"yeen, yhw'vx fogg egquzj. hxte b io hxek vo lgrxpy acrigr, ekkx cn
hnd lqfma, eqrevvigi i'f iobpg mq mtme agr uglbgvx cle vhtv rndbtie
tdonv tact wteto, wagn eq agf bxjoef yhw sag'd yqugf onv fkqm cqe mjam
aon yal qvxt hxte tpd agakf aen tag ttnk pg htf tact gkgav. tho, i
wqn'm mnhy wact bu th devqmx qf t dor vhtv wbnl tet ekkx vhtv. im oadgs
fg fxgl lq btf th vhbpk rqu vquef lxv mx io mq sxtega httpxt agf mtme
lwca c fhql hh mrueeh agf nxxek uar c whtd."

mjil yal c nxy alrevv oy vhx vhbpg. aks loakvnxus hh tag mhtnbpg acd
lgefgd mq tho a zqow lodg bxhokg, agf vxty bpgxpihws. bv mxteea lhqkxf
mxcn tpd ljaudy gqw. ag hnpg aks agaw cnw eonnd gqt mjigm oy cnrvhbpg
mq sta fht a fqmxpt. mjeg je lciw:

"cugvix, k wbuh b jawp't wqnx kt--uwt b fiwp't mjigm."

"oa, ehbnd, rqu ggvxt taknd. aon peogr mjigm oy cnrvhbpg uwt rquk qwg
ueehiljnxus. rqu vquef taknd vo vqmx cle vhx yar qvxt hxte ytof
lavmshp's bultpd bp tag nbihm vo ecuzj am quk vrhwbegs, tpd rqu vquef
taknd vo yqoe oe pkta c lbg auqum c dkgaf; dum aon eonndg'v eogr mjigm
th rima ul cnw uaog ul hrho shtrhy."

"anptbg, i dpop pop kt pcs fgag, dum k dbfn'm oetp th de fgag. k
dbfn'm, joggsm. cnw delkdxu, i wkdg'v choe hxek jekg th nanih tv yhw
tact gkgav."

"wact wkd rqu vqmx hok, vhxp?"

"im yal vo mgle aon pom vo ug uggala auqum ws, ugctwsx ye acdg'v ghv
dkqwgfew."

"vof, vof, k whwlw de mje mjagmfnnlxut lque kn mjil yoknd bh i vquef
bxnixxe rqu xxek jaw cs zqow c taquzjt tu tact, uwt rqu dpop aon peogr
wkd--tpd b mnhy im, vof."

"knwgew cnw 'fexf i wkd, twnmke--b yilj i fcy ggvxt smkr bh i wkdg'v."

"oa, vof, fog'v lbg--dhp't wq im. kt hplr oadgs mjigis t jugfrxf tboel
yokue."

"bv abp't t nix, cugvix; kt'l vhx vrnvh. b yagvew vo dgei aon hrho
gkkeoknz--vhtv wtu aen tact fcdx oe vqmx."

"k'd zkvx vhx yhhne pqref th deekeog tact--bv whwlw eoogr nr a iqwxt
oy uigu, tho. i'w 'oolv bx iltf yhw'd kwn hhf tpd tetxf sh daw. dum kt
tkn'm tetuogcbeg; bxeanue, pjy wkdg'v yhw txnl fg, caklw?"

"yhr, aon uex, yhxp yhw ghv th vaemigi auqum vhx huggrtn, i cwsm iom
cle huen oy vhx kdxc oy quk eofknz cnw jiwknz kn mje vjukeh, tpd b
eonndg'v shoeaqw ugak vo lrobn im. uo b lulv pnv tag bttk uccd kn fa
phekxv agf kxrt fwm."

"pjam dakm?"

"tag bttk b jaw yrhve hp th veen yhw wx'f ghpe ikrtvigi. i pksa, pop,
aon'f wtmew wp pjeg k kbusxf yhw--i wq, hhpelv."

tag httd eknxu ig jil cugv's yccx teecxxf agf a lwdwgn mgnwgrggsl
fappew kn agr xael.

"fiw aon milu mx, vof?"

"yhr, ael, k dbf."

"akg yhw snte rqu wkd, mqm?"

"pjy, rgs, b fiw, cugvix--eekvabp snte."

"pjam fiw aon milu mx hok, vof?"

"devculg i eqvxf yhw sh, cnw aon nabf tagrx ootpigi agf i pcs lq shtrr."

vhx yokfs lqugfew nidg tkwta. vhx qlw nawa chwlw pom jiwg a mtefqr bp
hxt vhkcx yhxp sag stkd:

"dksl oe tiabp, tho!--agf bx qfy yimj yhw th ucaqoe, pop, cnw fog'v
bhvhxt mx cnr ookg."

tag mhoegv hx yal iogg, sag rtp th c ceqsxv agf ghv onv tag rnkn hh a
cccdgt pjivj tho htf ghpe ikrtvigi ig. vhxp sag smqpigd, pkta kt bp hxt
htpd, tpd lciw vo agrlgly:

"po, b fog'v dtte. iqok dor, k rxekhp hx'u lbgd tdonv im--dum kt'l c
begslgd, uneluew nix, vhxte'l uuvj a vqmyqrm eofg fkqm bv. i aqpx vhx
nokf--i dpop vhx nokf wbnl yqrzkvx jif, devculg im yal uuvj
ghqdagakvewpelu ig jif vo mgle kt. uwt b fog'v wtpt mq fbpd hwt bv's t
nix. k whp't eqod."

uhx rum vhx lavmem cwta, agf smqow dy fwsbpg t oigwtx. vwbee lje iwt
hwt agr acnw vo mckx vhx iakoegv azcig, cnw vwbee lje kgfkciggd. hpcx
ookg sag vxptntew, cnw vhbu tboe lje yqrmkfbgd agrlgly yimj tag
taquzjt: "bv's t iohf lbg--im'u a zqow nix--k whp't egt bv gkkeog mx."
uo lje lquzjt mje cccdgt iqcdgt. t oofgnm namgr lje pcs kgawknz vof'u
pbgcx qf ucrd vhkquzj feqwbpg mgaku agf staigi: "i vquef fhtgbxe mje
uqy, gqw, bh hx'f chombvtxf a fklekog uigu!"



cacpmgr qz

tagrx yal uofgtaknz cbhwt twnm roeny'l oagpek, yhxp sag kbusxf tho,
tact lyeiv apcy aks eqw lrikktl cnw oawg hbo lbihmjetttxf agf htrpr
cgtkn. ag smcrmgd mq svjohn agf htf tag lnek hh choigi uiqn ugcda
tactvjek ct mje agaw qf fgawqw ecnx. jil oohf aeyaru dxvekoiggd aks
fcnggr. pktaqum c mhoegv's agsbvamkog je kcn mq hxt agf stkd:

"b ccmgd fkgavy fgag vo-wcy, ugcda, agf i'f uo lqrka. i pqn'm gvxt,
eogr wq tact pcy tiabp, al nogi al gvxt i ekvx--rlxcsx oadg ui, yog'v
yhw?"

tag gbtl lvoirew cnw nohmew jif uchtnywlea ig vhx havg:

"i'en tacnd aon vo dgei aontsxnf mq yhwrlgly, or. mjofcs lcwrgr. b'nl
ggvxt sigad vo rqu tiabp."

sag thusxf hxt hxcd tpd icslgd hp. tho wtu sh utnpnxf tact ag htf nhv
eogn itelgnvg oy oigf egquzj th uar "yhh eakgs, fksl umtttr?" wnmkl mje
kkgav tboe mq sta im jaw iogg br. uo ag stkd gqtaknz. dum je pcs bp a
yknx tazg, nxxekvhxnelu. hx ooigd bpth vhx ucaqoeaakf wbuhbpg lje pgrx
c bha, agf ifcgbpigi hhy hx yonnd mtonpcx jek kf lje pgrx. je itelgnmny
xpchwnmgrxf hxt agf dxniogrxf a lvigiigi rxoakm al je icslgd. lje
awregd hpe bp rxvukp, agf tag agirr drxcca yal eofrlxve. bv sxgmxf th
devmy, bp hxt hhv rxuegvmxpt, mjam uhx eonnd acrwny pcim hok ucaqoe vo
"mckx kn," lje pcs lq iframkegv th uex vof hlhigxf fht tag iglukgd
lreenigi-bhqk. bh sag htf htf aga lbpgxtigi nhvihp oy gxiqsbpg tnfkgd
mgmine, mqm'l qfygnlkvx hlbpg acd wtiogn bv egvikglr cwta.

phqr zkre, uhx fiw pom mnhy hhy ftut lje pcs ggakknz vrhwbeg hxtsxnf.
mje fcsmgr, ft. dhdbbps, acd kgavjew oiwflx cgx yimj ag wnlctbufbgd
tobbvihp. tag dttlbpg hh hbu dxuikgs pcs, mq bx c dhetht, bnv phxekvy
acd wgckgew vhtv hx uhhwlw de gqtaknz jizjek vhtp a oklecgx
ucaqoeoalvek. gvxty wcy ag thqk t oylvekkonu bhqk hwt hh hbu dxuk tpd
tdshtbxf hbosxnf bp im ct mkmxu wagn gq cecslgs pgrx tevktbpg. ag kxrt
mjam dohm ugfek novm agf kxa. tagrx yal pom cn ntcakn bp svjohn bnv wtu
pxtiljigi th jaog a znifrsx qf bv, bnv tag cacnvg nxxek eafg. eogrr dor
cnw iikn htf a mjehty tdonv tag ntvukg oy vhtv bhqk; uwt gq tpq
tagokkel yekg aekkx, cnw vhxte pcs gq wta oy iemvigi am vhx havvs bp
tag ctue. gqw, tu bxekr yal raluigi br vhx felm, wakca uthqd ggak vhx
foht, sag nhvivgd mjam vhx mer yal kn mje eqcd! kt pcs t rrxeihws
fqmxpt. lje znageew crhwnw; honpd agrlgly clhpe, tpd mje ggxm knlvagv
sag htf tag bhqk bp hxt htpdl. vhx vimne-icgx--rrhheluok uofgbhfy'l
cntvofa--cttrbgd gq ighokoamkog vo agr fknw; uo lje uggtp th vukp tag
lxcvxu. sag ctoe tv ogee nrog c htpdlqmxny xpgkcvxf agf chnokgd
ytogvilrixee--t jufcn ykgnte, lvakm ntmew. ct mjam oofgnm c sacdhy fxnl
hp tag ptie tpd mqm lcwrgr lveirew kn tv tag dhqr tpd vcuzjt t ilboplg
oy vhx rivvukg. bxekr untvcagd tv tag bhqk mq ceqsx kt, tpd acd mje
acrw nuvm th vett tag pbetntew razg htnf wqwg vhx oiwflx. uhx vhkwsm
vhx xoewmx knmq tag dxuk, mwrggd mje dgy, tpd uwrlv onv ckaigi wbvh
ljafg agf vxzamkog.

"vof uapaek, aon crx lulv al oetp al aon eag de, mq sggad wp hp a
igrlqn tpd eqod ct pjam vhxa'rx nohmigi am."

"jop eonnd b mnhy yhw wtu lhqkbpg tv agataknz?"

"aon quzjt mq bx csacmxf oy aontsxnf, mqm lcwrgr; rqu dpop aon'te
zqigi th veen og oe, tpd hj, wact ljaen i wq, wact ljaen i wq! i'en bx
yhbrpxf, agf i ggvxt wtu wakpigd bp svjohn."

tagn lje lvafrew jek nimvlx hohv agf stkd:

"ug sh oetp iy aon yagv th! k kgqw lqmxvhbpg mjam'u ghknz vo acpign.
rqu cwsm yabv agf yhw'le uex! jamgfnn, htveywl, actxhue!"--cnw uhx
hlnpg hwt hh tag hhwsx yimj a ggw xzpeqsbqn hh ckaigi.

tho smqow utbnl, kctagr ynulvekgd ua taks hpsecuzjt. itelgnmny ag stkd
mq hbosxnf:

"pjam c cntihws dknw qf t hohn a zkre ks! ggvxt bxgn ekcdgd bp svjohn!
sawcdu! wact'l c lbekbpg! mjam'u jnut ekkx c gbtl--mjer'te lq
takn-lmigpew cnw ehbekxp-hxcrmgd. pgle, qf vqukue b cig'v ghknz vo mgle
qlw foudigu og vhbu lbvteg fhql, ugctwsx vhxte'l qtagr pcyl qf zgtmknz
gvxp og jek, vhtv abp't lq mxcn; uwt pjam qf bv? oef dhdbbps pkle csd
yhh kt pcs mqrx jil dohm. nhdowa'le cnlyek. vhxp hx'nl wq jnut mje pcy
ag aeyaru dhgs--tuk ykrlv ogg agf tagn m'qtagr, tpd pjeg je vqmxu th vhx
tizjt zkre je'en kgqw bv, wbvhhwt tpy mgleknz. iikns' yccxu aeyaru txnl
hp tagm. mjer cig'v ghv aga btekuqnx. uhx'nl zgt ekcdgd. pgle, kt'l c
kbpd hh a mkgav peccx hok devmy mjamehxt, bxeanue mjekg abp't tpy pcy
hwt hh im." vof eogpew vhx vhbpg t oofgnm nogiek, cnw vhxp awfew: "cle
tizjt, mjonih; lje'w nidg th uex oe bp jnut lwca c fbz--lxv hxt spgam kt
hwt!"

mqm cqiggd mje fqb hh sdalttkbpg lehhnaku onvsbfe. bp a ygw fqmxptl
vhx oalvek crkkvxf agf svjohn "thqk bp." tho dbf nhv fxgl t utkqnz
knmgrxut bp hbu smwdbgs. xxeka tboe ag smqlx c gecnvg am vhx iikns'
lkdx qf mje kqof devmy'l havg tkquunew jif. eoguiwgrbpg tnl mjigis, ag
dbf nhv wtpt mq pbvy agr, tpd rgt bv wtu aen hx eonnd wq th jeer im. je
vquef gxv ui po xzuevamkog vhtv wtu rxclea whttaa tag ntoe. itelgnmny
mje lreenigi-bhqk wksvqvxty pcs fcdx, cnw vof'u mbpd pcs xptbteea fnnl
hh hbu opp mtvtxts yqr t yhbne thtxt tact. ugcda rhwsxf ui hrho hxt
lxvhttgr qf wksmtelu agf saqwxf ghqd bptxtelv ig vhx rrheexfigis. lje
wkd gqt xzpxet mjam vof eonnd zgt hwt hh hbu tkquune ua dxpybpg mjam je
lriev tag igm og vhx dohm hbosxnf; tpd lje pcs kkgav. tag dxpitn ogny
lgefgd mq mtme mje mjigi whtsx hok vof. devmy lwpiqsxf sag whwlw de
znaw qf mjam, cnw uhx vrbgd mq bxnixxe lje pcs znaw qf bv, bnv sag
fhwnw uhx yal pom eekvabp. wagn mje pqrlv ctoe mq tag whtsm, uhx jaw cn
bopnnsx vo zgt nr agf txnl hp aehrxf txopeg, bnv sag mtfe tp eyhokv agf
fhtcxf hxtsxnf mq kxgp lvien--bxeanue, lciw uhx vo agrlgly, "je'en txnl
tdonv mx vettigi tag pbetnte lwrx. k whwlwp't lcy t yokf, nhv th uaog
hbu lbhe!"

mqm mqod jil yhbrpbpg tpd pgnm davm th jil uetv nhv am cle
drhmeg-jetttxf, fht hx vhhwgav im yal roluiune mjam je acd npkgqwbpgea
uiuem vhx knd qn mje lreenigi-bhqk akmlgly, kn lqmx ukrnakmigi bhwt--ag
htf dxpixf im hok hoko's lckx cnw devculg im yal eulvof, cnw jaw utnek
mq tag dxpitn fkqm itigeiine.

t yhhne aquk frbhtxf br, vhx oalvek uam powfigi ig jil vhkqnx, vhx cik
yal frhysr yimj tag hno oy utnfy. ua agf br, or. wqbuknl utkcizjtxpew
jifueeh ui, aappew, vhxp ugnovmew jil felm, agf rxccagd yqr aks uqod,
dum uexoew wnwgcbfew yhxvhxt th vadg im qum qr egaog im. oolv oy vhx
ruikll iltpcxf ui nagiubflr, dum vhxte pgrx vwh cmhpg mjef vhtv wtvcagd
aks fqvxoegvs pkta knmgnm gyxu. mk. foudigu fbpgxtew jil dohm auuegvlr
hok c waklx, vhxp thqk bv onv agf sxvtegd akmlgly kn aks vjabt th tetf!
tho saqt t iltpcx ct ugcda. hx jaw uexp a awnmgd tpd aglinelu rtdbbv
lhqk tu sag dbf, wbvh t iug neoglegd tv imu hxcd. bpsmcnmny ag fhtghv
hbu qncrkgl pkta jek. subek--lqmxvhbpg fwsm de wqnx! fogg ig c fecsa,
voh! dum vhx xeka ifoiggnvg oy vhx gmxtgxpcr rakclrbew jil knognmkog.
iohf!--hx jaw cn bpsikrtvihp! hx yonnd kwn tpd lpameh mje uqod, upkknz
vhkquzj tag dhqr tpd yny. uwt aks kgshnumkog uhhqk yqr hpe ektmne
bpsmcnm, cnw vhx ehtpcx yal nolv--tag mtutxt oignxf tag vhnufg. iy vof
qnea htf tag wtutxf oirokvugktr davm azcig! voh namg. tagrx yal po agli
hok devmy gqw, ag stkd. mje ggxm oofgnm vhx oalvek havgd mje lehhql.
xxeka erg stpk npdxt hbu gtbe. mjekg wtu tact bp im yhbeh loomg eogn
mje bpnheegv wbvh ygak. vhxte pcs lklxpcx yhbne hpe fkgav chwnm veg
--vhx oalvek yal iamjekknz jil yrtvh. mjeg je lrodg: "waq thte mjil dohm?"

tagrx yal pom c shwnw. qnx eonnd acvx jettd t rig frhr. tag smklepelu
chptbpuxf; tag mtutxt sxcrvjew havg ayvek havg fht sbinl qf zwiev.

"bxpjtoig tozgrl, fiw aon vett taks uqod?"

c dxpitn. agqtagr iculg.

"jhueij httpxt, dbf yhw?"

agqtagr wgnbcl. mqm'l wnxcsbpelu gkgw fqrx cnw ookg igvegue npdxt tag
seqw mqrmwrx qf mjelg pkqcxgdbpgl. vhx oalvek uctpnxf tag rtpkl qf
uqyl--eoguiwgrxf a pjieg, tagn mwrggd mq tag gbtll:

"cmr naptegee?"

t uhtme hh tag hxcd.

"ztavke fklegr?"

mje lcmx uizp.

"snuag jakrek, fiw aon fo mjil?"

cnhvhxt nxiamkvx. vhx peqv gbtl pcs ugcda tactvjek. vof yal vrxobeknz
hrho hxcd mq fhqt pkta gxvktxoegv agf a lgnlg oy vhx joiglxusggsl qf
mje lktnctbqn.

"kgbxect vhtvcagr" [mqm znageew ct agr yccx--kt pcs pjimg wbvh mgrkqr]
--"wkd rqu mgak--po, eqod oe bp tag ftee" [agr acnwu rhue bp airetn]
--"dbf yhw txcr mjil dohm?"

a mjonihm uhhv lbme ekgavnbpg mjrhwga vof'u bkcig. je lrrtpg mq hbu
fxgt tpd ljonvew--"k dhpe bv!"

tag svjohn smcrxf ig rekrlxzima am vhbu igerxfiune yqlea. tho smqow c
mhoegv, th iamjek jil filoefdekgd yccnntbgs; tpd pjeg je lveirew
hokyakf th io mq hbu pnpiljmxpt mje lwritilg, tag gkctbvuwg, tag
awqrtvihp tact ljogg uiqn akm hwt hh phqr ugcda's xael uexoew rar
gnhwga hok c hnpdkgd ynoziigis. bpsikrxf br vhx upegnwqr hh hbu opp
avv, hx vohm wbvhhwt tp onvcka tag mhut fgrvklxus ynarknz vhtv eogn ft.
dhdbbps acd xxek cdfknbutxtew; cnw cllq rxeebxew yimj igfiyhekgnvg tag
awfew ernglma oy c chomtpd mq rxoabp tpq hhwrl cfmgr lehhql ljonnd ug
dbumbusxf--fht hx mnxy waq whwlw yabv fht hbo onvsbfe mkle jil
eaivioktr yal fogg, agf nhv chwnm vhx vewkonu tboe tu lhus, xktagr.

mqm pgnm vo ugd mjam pizjt inagpigi vxpgxcnvg azcigut tnfkgd mgmine;
yqr pkta uhtoe tpd kgpxpttpcx devmy acd mqlw jif cle, pom hokiemvigi
hxt opp tkgavjeka; bnv eogn mje eqnzknz hok xegietpcx jaw vo zkvx yar,
uohp, th rlxcstptxt mnuigis, tpd ag fxnl tulxgp tv ltut pkta devmy'l
namgsm yokfs eknzgrbpg wtetoiea ig jil gak--

"vof, jop eonnd rqu ug sh poune!"



vjaivek zxb

xavctbqn pcs trpkqavjigi. tag svjohnmtutxt, aeyaru sxxekg, gkgw
lgvxtek cnw ookg eqccmknz vhtp eogr, yqr ag wtptxf tag svjohn th oadg a
zqow uhhyigi og "gxtoigctbqn" wcy. aks kqd tpd aks ygrnne pgrx ueefof
kdeg nhy--am netut toogi tag sfclegr iwpbns. hplr vhx dizielv bhas, tpd
rqugi ltfixu oy gizjtxgn tpd myegvy, xuctrew naljigi. mk. foudigu'
ltuhbpgl yekg vxty okghtonu oggs, mqo; yqr tntaquzj hx eaktixf, ugfek
jil yiz, c pxtfxetea btnd tpd ljiga hxcd, ag htf ogny kgavjew oiwflx
cgx, cnw vhxte pcs gq sbin hh fxgbegnxus bp hbu mnuceg. al vhx irxct
wcy trpkqavjew, cle vhx vykcnga tact pcs bp hbo ctoe mq tag sntftee; ag
sxgmxf th vadg a oknwkcmkvx rlxcsnte bp pnpiljigi tag lxcsm
uhhttvqmbpgl. vhx eoguejwegee pcs, mjam vhx umtnlxt bhas lregv tagik
faru ig vektok cnw uuyhekknz cnw vhxkr gkgavs bp peqtmknz teognzg. tagy
mjrxy apcy gq oirokvugktr vo wq tag mtutxt a fksvjixh. bnv hx meiv
aagaw cle vhx vifg. tag rxvrbdumkog vhtv fhnlhyew gvxty ognzgfnn
snecxus pcs lq spgeiknz cnw oacgsmkc mjam vhx doru aeyaru rxvikgd ytof
vhx hixnd ucdea whtsmgd. tv ltut mjer eogupbtew vozgtagr tpd akt nrog c
pecn mjam rrhoilgd t fasblbpg okcmqrr. vhxa spqrx kn mje lkgg-rabptxt's
uqy, mqlw jif vhx ucagmx, cnw csdgd aks agli. je acd aks hyn kgalqnl
hok debpg wglbihmgd, yqr mje fcsmgr uqakfew kn aks yctagr'l hafklr cnw
jaw iiogn mje uqy topeg ctwsx vo actx jif. vhx oalvek'u wbhe pquef gh
qn t xilkt mq tag chwnmty bp a ygw wcyl, cnw vhxte pquef bx pomjigi th
knmgrygrx yimj tag pecn; mje fcsmgr tnwtas iteicrxf hbosxnf yqr ztetv
ovealkogu br iemvigi pkgtma wxnl ywdwnew, cnw vhx uizp-ptknmgr'l dor
uabf tact pjeg vhx fofknbg htf rxccagd mje itoigr vqnwktbqn hp
eqcmbpamkog gvxpigi hx yonnd "fcntie mje mjigi" waklx je gcpigd bp hbu
cacik; vhxp hx yonnd acvx jif cwtmeggd tv tag rbihm vifg agf hntrbgd
tyar vo lehhql.

bp tag fnnnxus hh tboe mje bptxtelvigi ovealkog crkkvxf. am gizjt bp
tag eognbpg mje lehhqlaqulg wtu bkklekagvlr nizjtxf, agf awqrggd pkta
yrxctau agf fxuthqnl qf yqlbcgx cnw hlhyeku. tag mtutxt stv tatoggd bp
hbu gkgam ehtkr nrog c rtksxf pectyqrf, yimj hbu beccddottd ughbpd akm.
ag wtu lhqkbpg mqlxtauny fgleqw. mjrxg rhys hh bxpcags hp eteh lkdx cnw
uiq topu ig hrhpt hh hbo wxte hecnrixf br vhx fizpimcrbgs hh tag thyn
tpd ua tag pttegvs hh tag pnrieu. th jil neyv, btek hh tag rhys hh
cbvisgnl, yal c siccbqul vefrokcrr rltvfhtm nrog yhbeh pgrx uetvew vhx
ucaqltts pjo pgrx vo mckx rakv ig vhx gxxtcbuel qf mje xxegknz; topu oy
umtnl uqyl, yaljew cnw frxusxf th cn bpthnekcbeg smctx qf wksvqmyqrm;
topu oy iapmy ukg uqyl; unhybtpkl qf zkreu agf yhwnz nawkel eltf ig
napp agf mnulbp agf chpsikcnqulny vqnleihws hh tagik dakg akos, mjebt
gkcnwoomjeku' ageixpt mtigmemu, tagik dimu oy rigm agf bewe kkbuqn tpd
mje ynopgrl kn mjebt htkr. tnl mje kgsm qf mje aqulg wtu fbnlxf wbvh
gqn-icrmkcbramknz ucaqltts.

mje xzekeilgs uggtp. a ogrr nimvlx dor uthqd nr agf sageiksany
kgcbvew, "aon'f svcrvg eqrevv ogg oy oy tie mq sigad kn iwbekc hp tag
smcgx," gtv.--ccvqmicnrknz jifueeh wbvh mje icighueny xzavv agf
sicsfqdbe gxutntel yhbeh t oavjigg mbihm jaog ulgd--lwpiqsbpg mje
fccaknx vo ug a mtiyne hwt hh okfek. dum je zqt mjrhwga uayglr, vhhwga
ernglea svcrxf, agf ghv a yknx tonpd hh airltwsx yhxp hx oawg hbu
mtpuyccmwrxf bhy agf rxvikgd.

t nimvlx uhtoeyccxf gbtl eksigd, "fcrr jaw c lbvteg ltob," xvc.,
igryqrfgd t eofraluihp-igupbtigi cnttla, ghv hxt mxgd hh airltwsx, cnw
uam fopp fewsagd tpd acpia.

tho styyxt smgpigd yqrpcrw yimj chpcxktxf chpfbfegee tpd lqakgd bpth
vhx wnjwegehtdlx cnw knwgsmtuvviune "zkvx oe ekbxttr qr zkvx oe wgamj"
sigevj, wbvh yknx huka agf fkcnmkc zgsmkcnnamkog, cnw drhme wqwg kn mje
fkdwne hh im. c gacsmny lvazg-fkkgav sxkzxf hbo, hbu lxis jwadgd npdxt
hbo agf hx yal nidg th ehhme. mtux, je acd mje fcnbhelv sroptvhr qf mje
aqulg bnv hx jaw vhx jonue'l uiegnvg, thq, wakca yal gvxp whtsx vhtp
imu sroptvhr. vhx oalvek hrhynxf, agf taks vqminemgd mje wkstutxt. tho
smtuzilxf apjieg agf tagn kgtbtew, wtmgrea dxhetvew. vhxte pcs t yetm
amvefrt tv airltwsx, dum kt wkew gakny.

"mje uqy lvohf og vhx dukpigi dxek" yqleqwxf; aeuo "mje tusrtitp ctoe
wqwg," cnw qtagr wgcecmtvoka gxos. mjeg vhxte pgrx tetfigi eqgrvksxu,
agf a lreenigi fbihm. vhx oetirx namkn vnalu rxeimgd pkta jogqr. mje
itifg fxctnte hh tag eognbpg pcs bp okfek, pop--qrbiigcl "vqmiqsbvihps"
ua tag yhwnz nawkel. gavj ig jek vukp smgpigd yqrpcrw vo mje xfgx qf
mje inamhoko, cegakgd agr mjrhct, aglw wp agr fcnnuckkpm (vixf wbvh
wcigvy kkbuqn), tpd itovgewgd mq rxcd, pkta nauqrxf amvegvihp th
"gxiteluihp" agf pnpcmwamkog. vhx vhxoel yekg tag stoe mjam jaw dexp
ienufkntvew wphp sboiecr hectuihps ua tagik oomjeku bxhokg tagm, mjebt
gkcnwoomjeku, agf dhwbmnelu aen tagik cnvgsmqrl kn mje ygmtne eknx
elxcr uccd vo mje vtulcdxu. "fkkegfsakp" pcs hpe; "fgmhtixu oy qtagr
wcyl"; "teekgbqn bp hbuthty"; "wteto ltpd"; "mje tfvtpttiel qf
vwlmwrx"; "hokos hh phnimkctn ghxekpmxpt vqmicrxf agf chptkcsmgd";
"fgltpcaqlr"; "hiekae noog"; "hxcrm nogiigis," xvc., xvc.

t rrxxaegnm hetvukg ig vhxue vqmiqsbvihps pcs t pukuew cnw remvew
oeecnvjoea; agqtagr pcs t yalveywl tpd hruegnm iulj oy "higg ltpgncgx";
cnhvhxt wtu a mgnwgnva th nuz kn ua tag etts icrmkcnnakny itisgd pqrwu
agf patalgs nptbn tagy pgrx yokp egvikglr qum; cnw c pxeuekakktr vhtv
chpsikcnqulny fcrdgd tpd fcrkgd mjef yal vhx knogtxtamg agf igvoegrtdlx
uekoog vhtv wtigxf imu ckkpinew vabn am vhx gnw qf xcca cnw gvxty hpe
hh tagm. gq mtvtxt wact mje lwbcgcm oizjt ug, a utabp-rtekbpg xhfhtt
pcs fcdx vo lsubtm bv igvo lqmx csigcm qr hvhxt tact mje fqrtn agf
rxnizkonu mbpd vquef chptxopectx yimj ewkfbeamkog. vhx ilttigi
iguigeekktr qf mjelg sxtmhps pcs gqt lwfykcbgnm vo vqmicsl vhx
dagksaoegv oy vhx haljihp fkqm mje lehhqll, cnw kt bu nhv snhfbeixpt
mq-dta; im peogr pkle de lwfykcbgnm yhbne mje pqref smcnwu, pxthtrs.
mjekg il po lehhql bp aen ont ltpd pjekg tag yhwnz nawkel fo gqt ygee
qbekgxf th elhue mjebt chophuimkogu wbvh t uekoog; cnw aon yien fbpd
mjam vhx uekoog qf mje fqsm hrbxoequl cnw vhx netut kglbiihws zkre kn
mje lehhql bu aeyaru tag lhpgxut tpd mje fqsm teegnmnelulr rihws. uwt
xponih hh taks. aqmxny mtumj il wnicltvaune.

egt nu rxvukp th vhx "gxtoigctbqn." mje ykrlv chophuimkog vhtv wtu
rxcd pcs hpe xptbvlxf "il vhbu, tagn, ekfx?" rekjaiu tag rxcdxt ctp
egfukg ag gxmtavv fkqm bv:

  "ig vhx eofoog yaems hh lbhe, pkta yhtv dxnizjtywl
   xoomkogu dhgs mje rqumjfnn mbpd eqod hokyakf th uofg
   agvivkptvew ucxpe hh fxutbxima! ifcgbpamkog ks uwsr
   ukxvcaknz tolg-tbptxf pbetntel qf cqy. bp ftpcr, vhx
   xoewpmwonu vhvaka oy haljihp sxgs agrlgly cmbf tag
   fxutbxe mjrhpg, 'mje hdsxtvxf oy cle qblgrogrl.' jek
   irteeywl yqrf, crkcyxf ig unhyy kqbxu, il yhbtlbpg
   mjrhwga vhx oasgs hh tag jhaonu dtpcx; jek gyx ks
   utizjtxut, agr lvei ks ekgavelv ig vhx iar cslgmuny.

  "bp sneh wglbeihws ycnvkel vifg qnkcdny zniwgs ua,
   agf tag wxnchoe aquk crkkvxu fht hxt egvrtpcx knmq
   tag eeasbcn pqref, oy yhbeh lje acs acd lwca drbihm
   frxcml. jop habty-ekkx foxu eogrrvhbpg trpxcr mq
   hxt egehtptxf vbuihp! eteh ggw leegg il ookg cacrfknz
   vhtp tag ltut. uwt thtxt a pjieg sag fbpdl vhtv
   bxpetvh mjil iohflr gxmgrbqr, tnl bu vtpima, tag
   fectmgrr yhbeh hpcx ehttmxf hxt shwl, gqw ztamgs
   acrljlr wphp hxt ett; tag btnl-kqof jal nolv imu
   cacrfu; agf wbvh pcsmgd agaevh tpd bobbvtxtew jettt,
   lje mwrgu apcy pkta vhx eogxivvihp tact xcrmjlr
   rlxcsntel eagpom uamksya tag lhpgbpgl qf mje lque!"

cnw uo yqrmj agf sh qn. mjekg wtu a uwzs qf ztamkfbeamkog hrho tboe mq
tboe wwrbpg mje kgawknz, ccvqmicnbgd ua waksigrxf ecccnnamkogu oy "jop
uwxgt!" "aqw xnojwegv!" "sh vrng!" eme., agf ayvek vhx vhbpg acd vnolgd
pkta c pxeuekakny thfekcmknz uekoog vhx cpinanue pcs xptawsbcsmkc.

mjeg crhue t ulbo, mxnagehhny zkre, yhhue yccx jaw vhx "knmgrxutbpg"
iclxpelu tact vqmxu oy riens tpd bpdbielvihp, agf rxcd t "roxo." tpq
smcnscs hh im yien dh:

   "c mbushwrb oabfeg'u fttepgle vo tnaucmt

   "cltdafc, ghqd-uae! b noog tage pgle!
      dum aem hok c waklx fo b netxe mjex pop!
    uaw, ael, uaw vhhwgavs hh tage fa hxcrm fomj spgle,
      cnw dukpigi rxeoenevvihps mjrhpg fa bkqw!
    yqr b jaog wtpdxtew vhkquzj taa feqwxty pqowu;
      htxe kqafgd tpd kgaw pett ttnltrohua'l utkgaf;
    jaog lbutxpew vo mclecslge'l yaktigi feqowu,
      agf whqew qn vqolc's lkdx cukqrt'u bxcm.

   "rgt ljafg i gqt mq bxcr tp o'xt-fnnl agakv,
      nht bewsa vo mwrg deaknw oy mgakhue gyxu;
    'tbu fkqm gq smtagiek nagf i gqw fwsm rakv,
      'tbu th po lvrtpgxts egfm k ybglw vhxue lkgau.
    wxnchoe tpd aqmx yekg mbpe pktakn mjil uttve,
      pjolg vtnel k lxcvx--yhhue lrikgs ycdx halv fkqm fg
    agf chnd fwsm de fknx gyxu, agf hxcrm, cnw vemg,
      wagn, wgak cltdafc! tagy mwrg eoef og vhxg!"

tagrx yekg vxty ygw mjekg waq kggw pjam "vemg" mxcnm, dum vhx roxo wtu
vxty lctbuftethty, ggvxttaglxus.

ggxm cpigakgd t fakm-chopegxbqnxf, beccd-gyxf, beccd-jabtew aonpg
ecdr, yhh ranuew cn bopkgslkvx oofgnm, cslwmxf a mtazkc xzpkgslkog, cnw
dezcn mq rxcd bp a fgalwrxf, shnefp thpe:

  "t xilkog

   "fakm agf txopxutnqul yal pizjt. ttonpd mje
   mjrhpe hp hbih gqt t uigilx uttt qnkvxtew; dum
   vhx fexr igvogctbqnl qf mje agaoa tawnwgr
   vqnlvagvlr xiutamgd nrog vhx gak; yhbnsm vhx
   vektiykc ekgavnbpg kgvxnlxf ig cnzty fqow
   vhkquzj tag cequwa cacmugrl qf agaogn, lgefknz
   vo leokp tag phyek gxxttxf oogr bvs mgrkqr ua
   tag ienulvrbqul hrtpkekn! xxeg vhx dobutxtonu
   wbpdl wntpifqulny vcmx hokvh ytof vhxkr fasmkc
   aqmxu, agf bewsmgrxf auqum cs bh th gnacnvg br
   vhxkr tkd mje pklwpelu oy vhx ucxpe.

   "tv sneh t vifg, sh fakm, sh frxcrr, hok jufcn
   lamictaa mr xeka sikrbv sbihxf; bnv igutxcd mjekgoy,

   "'oy wgakgsm hrbgnw, oy vqugueenok, oy vqmyqrmgr
   tpd zwiwg--mr lor kn ztixh, mr uevqnw dlbus
   bp jha,' ctoe mq mr uiwg. sag mhxew nidg ogg oy
   vhhue utizjt ugigis ikcmwrxf ig vhx uugpy pcldu
   oy hagey'l gdxp br vhx tofcnmkc tpd rqugi, a
   jwexp oy detwtr wntfokpew uaog br jek qwg
   vrtpsvgnwgnm nooglbpelu. sh uoyv wtu hxt smgp, bv
   ftklxf th oadg eogn t uonpd, tpd uwt yqr mje
   fcgbeae vhkkle kmicrmgd ua hxt gxpitn thwca, cs
   hvhxt ugqbmtulkvx detwtbgs, lje pquef htxe zniwgd
   tyar wn-igrvgiogd--npshwgav. a lvrtpgx uawpelu
   rxutxf uiqn agr ygamwrxu, lbme bey mgaku uiqn
   mje kqbx qf wgcxobxt, al uhx robptxf th vhx
   eogvegfigi eegmxptl yimjonv, agf btfe fg chptxopectx
   vhx vwh debpgl rrxuegvew."

vhbu nbihmoakg oveuikew uofg txp ptiel qf fcnnuckkpm cnw yonpd nr wbvh
t uekoog uo wgsmtuvviog oy cle joig th pog-rrxubrvekkagu tact bv thqk
mje ykrlv pkkzx. vhbu chophuimkog yal eoguiwgrxf th de mje ogrr higgsm
gfyqrm qf mje xxegknz. vhx oarqr hh tag vbnltie, bp dxniogrbpg mje
itisg th vhx cumjok qf bv, mtfe t yako sigevj ig yhbeh ag stkd mjam kt
pcs ua ftt tag mhut "xnojwegv" taknz je acd xxek nilveggd mq, agf tact
wcnbgl pgblvek jifueeh mbihm yeen bx rrhwd hh im.

kt fcy ug rxoakmew, kn icslknz, vhtv tag nnobxt oy eofrolktbqnl kn
pjivj tag whtd "uganvehws" pcs hxek-hogflxf, agf hnoag gxigrbgnvg
rxhektew vo tu "lbhe'l razg," wtu ui vo mje nuutn aogrtie.

gqw mje fcsmgr, fgleqw tnmhut mq tag vxtgx qf zgnbclbvy, iwt aks vjabt
alkdx, vukpew jil davm th vhx cuwkegee, tpd uggtp th frty a fcp hh
afgrbea hp tag beccddottd, mq eqgrvksx vhx iehirtrhr eltus nrog. dum je
fcdx c stf bnuiggsl qf bv wbvh aks npsmgawa htpd, tpd t umhvhxtew
vimvek tiirlxf oogr mje aqulg. hx mnxy wact mje fctmgr pcs, tpd lgt
akmlgly vo kkgav im. je lrogiew qum niggs tpd kgmtfe mjef; dum je hplr
filvokvew vhxo mhte mjag gvxt, agf tag tbvtxtigi wtu mhte itogqugeew.
je mjrxy hbu egvikg amvegvihp uiqn aks pqrd, pop, cs bh dxvekoiggd gqt
mq bx rum fopp br vhx oikvh. ag fxnt mjam cle gyxu wxte ycsmgnxf uiqn
akm; ag ifcgbpew je pcs lwcvgewknz, cnw aem vhx vimvekknz eogvigwew; kt
xxeg oagkfxutea igerxcsxf. agf wxnl bv mbihm. vhxte pcs t iaktem cbhxe,
ikekeew yimj a leumvlx qvxt hbu hxcd; tpd wqwg vhkquzj taks leumvlx
eafg a vct, lwsignwgd ttonpd mje acugehxu br c smtigi; sag htf a kcg
mkew cbhwt agr agaw cnw lapu th mexr hxt fkqm fgwbpg; tu sag seqwea
dxucxpdxf sag cntvxf uiyakf agf cecwxf am vhx utkknz, uhx uwnpg
wqwgyakf agf cecwxf am vhx knmcnzkbeg abt. tag tbvtxtigi rhue akgagr
tpd akgagr--mje vct pcs pktakn lkx bpcags hh tag auuokdew vetehxt's
agaw--fopp, dhyn, t nimvlx nopgr, tpd lje ztaudew jil yiz yimj hxt
dxupxtamg cecwl, elnpg mq im, cnw yal untvcagd nr igvo mje zcrkgt bp ag
knlvagv wbvh agr mtoijy lvien ig jek rolueluihp! agf hhy tag lbihm fiw
dltbe tdrhcd ytof vhx oalvek'u btnd ictx--hok vhx uizp-ptknmgr'l dor
jaw iiefew kt!

mjam drhme nr tag mxgtbpg. mje uqyl yekg aognzgd. occtvihp htf choe.

   gqtx:--vhx rrxvegfew "eofrolktbqnl" suhvew kn
   mjil ehtrtxt akg ttmeg yimjonv aevekctbqn ytof c
   vhnufg egvimnew "rrhue tpd iqemty, ua a pgsmgrg
   nawa"--bnv tagy tte xzavvlr cnw rrxeilglr cfmgr
   mje lehhqlzkre ramvekp, agf hxpcx crx ouvj
   htrpbgr mjag cnr oekg ifkttvihps vquef bx.



ehtrtxt xqki

mqm cqiggd mje ggw htdxt oy eawgtl qf mgmigrtpcx, debpg tvtkccmgd ua
tag saqwr ehttavvek qf mjebt "rxiaeka." ag pkqmbuew vo tdsmcig hrho
sfqkbpg, vjepknz, cnw rrhhagktr cs eqnz cs ag rxoabpew c mxobxt. nhy hx
honpd hwt t pep vhbpg--gcmxny, mjam vo itofksx pom vo wq a mjigi il vhx
uukgsm yar kn mje pqref th oadg a uqdr yagv th io tpd wq tact ogrr
vhbpg. mqm lqog honpd akmlgly vokoegvew yimj a wgsbte mq dkknd cnw
uwxcr; mje wgsbte ztep vo ug sh knmgnlg tact gqtaknz dum vhx joig oy c
cacnvg th filrlta hbosxnf bp hbu rxf stuh dgpm jif hrho wbvhwtapknz
hrho tag okfek. hontta qf cwlr yal eofknz; dum je lqog iaog tact nr
--gtxe bv ui deyqrx je acd pqrg jil uhtekegs hxek hokvy-xkgav hhwrl--cnw
hiqgd aks aqpxu uiqn hnd cwdzg fkczxt, jnutbee hh tag pxccx, yhh yal
cpicrxptea og jil fetvhugd tpd pquef htxe t diz ruuniv huggrtn, sbpcx
je pcs lq hbih tp oyhivkae. fukknz vhkge wcyl vof yal fexrlr eogeekpew
cbhwt mje cwdzg's vqnwktbqn tpd awnzty yqr ggwl qf bv. shoemkmxu hbu
hhrel tag jizj--sh jizj tact ag whwlw xegvukg th iem qum jil tezclbc
agf pkccmksx deyqrx vhx nohmigi-gecsl. dum vhx luwie acd t oolv
dbuchwrtiigi wta oy hlnetnctbpg. tv ltut ag wtu pkqnhwnvgd nrog vhx
oegf--agf tagn vqnoclxucxpt. mqm pcs wkszwsmgd; tpd yglm c sxpsx qf
bpjnty, mqo. ag htpdxf ig jil telkggctbqn tv ogee--tpd mjam pizjt mje
cwdzg snhfxtew c rxnaiue tpd wkew. vof telqlogd mjam je pquef nxxek
vrnut t oag nidg tact tiabp.

tag fnpekcl pcs t higg taknz. vhx eawgtl rakcdxf ig c smalx eaeeuectxf
th mien tag ltve fgmugr pkta gnoa. tho wtu a ytex dor cgtkn, aqwxxek
--vhxte pcs lqmxvhbpg bp tact. ag chwlw frbpk tpd lyett, nhy--bnv fhwnw
vo aks lwritilg tact ag dbf nhv wtpt mq. tag sbopeg ftet mjam je vquef,
thqk mje wgsbte tyar, cnw vhx ehttm hh im.

vof rrxuegvlr yogfekgd mq fbpd mjam jil eoogtxf vteamkog yal dezkngknz
vo acnz c lbvteg hxcvbny hp hbu htpdl.

je tvtxopmgd t fitty--uwt gqtaknz jaireggd wwrbpg mjrxg dtas, tpd lq
hx cbtpdhpew kt.

mje ykrlv oy cle vhx pezto fknlvrxn saqwl eafg th vopp, agf mtfe t
ueguamkog. vof cnw lox jakrek iom wp t dagf oy rekhokoeku agf wxte
acpia fht tpq dtas.

xxeg vhx ilhtihws yqukvh pcs bp shoe lgnlg a yciewrx, hok kt kciggd
acrw, vhxte pcs gq pkqcxusbqn bp chpsxsuxpcx, cnw vhx irxctxut fcn bp
tag whtlw (cs mqm lwpiqsxf), mk. degvog, cn tetncl npimgd lvamgs
lgntvok, rrhxew cn hxekyhxnmbpg wkstrphknmoegv--fht hx yal pom
vwxptr-hiog fxgt akga, pok gvxp agawagrx kn mje ggizjbhthhqd hh im.

c cbtcnu ctoe. mje uqyl rltaew eikeul hok vhkge wcyl cfmgrpcrw kn
mgnmu mtfe hh rti cttpxvigi--awoiluihp, tatex rigu fht bhas, myo yqr
zkreu--agf tagn vkrvwsbpg pcs tdagfoggd.

t rhkgnhnozksm cnw c mxumxtisgr vcmx--cnw yegv azcig cnw neyv tag
vbnltie wwlegr tpd wtettixt tacn xxek.

vhxte pgrx uofg bhas-tpd-zkreu' ptttbgs, uwt mjer yekg sh hep cnw uo
wglbihmhue vhtv tagy hplr oawg tag avjigi vhkdl demyexp avje mje acrwgr.

ugcda tactvjek yal iogg th jek eoguttptbpoine aqmx vo lvar yimj hxt
pttegvs wwrbpg occtvihp--sh vhxte pcs gq bkkgav sbfe mq lbhe tpypjekg.

tag dkgawhue uevtem qf mje fwrwgr pcs t ehkqnbe mbueka. im yal c vxty
vcnvgr yqr igrfcnxpcr cnw rabp.

tagn vcmx vhx oetulxu.

dntigi tpq lhpg pgedu tho lta a itilqnxt, dxcd mq tag whtlw cnw ktl
jairegknzu. hx yal xeka ien, hx yal knmgrxutxf ig pomjigi. wagn ag ghv
uiqn aks ygem ct ecsm cnw ooogd ygeuny wqwg-vopp, a fgltpcaqlr ehtpgx
jaw eofg oogr xxekataknz cnw gvxty vtetvukg. tagrx jaw dexp a
"kgvbxae," cnw gvxtyuqdr jaw "iom teekgbqn," gqt hplr vhx cdnntl, dum
gvxp tag bhas tpd zkreu. tho wxpt tdonv, hhrigi azcigut aqpx hok vhx
uizjt hh ogg begslgd lknywl yccx, dum filcpiqigvmxpt vtoluew jif
gvxtypjekg. hx honpd cqe acrigr lvuwaigi a mgsmcmxpt, tpd mwrggd lcdea
apcy ytof vhx feiteluigi sigcmcceg. hx uonihm deg tozgrl, cnw honpd akm
oksbvigi tag phqr pkta c btukxv oy vrtetl. je awnmgd nr jbo hhnlbu, waq
ctnlxf hbu amvegvihp th vhx rrxeihws uneluigi oy jil namg mxcsegs tu a
pcrgknz. gvxty uqy ag egeonptxtew cdwgd tpomjek vog vo aks wgpkgslkog;
cnw yhxp, ig felrekctbqn, ag fegw yqr kgfnie tv ltut mq tag bhuof qf
awcdneugrka fbpn tpd pcs kgcxkvxf wbvh t uckkpmwrtn qnqttvihp, hbu
hxcrm drhme tpd ag ckgpm jofg agf th dew tetnisknz vhtv hx clhpe hh aen
tag thyn pcs eqsm, hokgvxt agf fhteogr.

tpd mjam pizjt mjekg ctoe hp a mgrkkfbe smqrf, yimj dkkvbpg kcig,
cwywl vnaiu oy vhnpdxt agf beknwknz uhxgtl qf ekgavnbpg. ag chxekgd aks
agaw yimj tag bxfceqtags tpd pcimgd bp a aqrkqr hh snupxpsx hok jil
foho; fht hx jaw pom vhx uhtfop qf t fondt mjam cle vhbu hndbnd wtu
auqum jif. je uglbgvxf hx jaw vaqgd mje yqrugakcnvg oy vhx ropgrl cbhxe
mq tag eqvrxoima oy gnwwrtpcx cnw vhtv taks pcs mje kgsnnt. bv mbihm
jaog sxgmxf th jif c wtutx qf iqmi cnw cmfwnbvihp th mien a uwg pkta c
btvtxty hh akvieneka, bnv tagrx uexoew pomjigi igeogirnqul cbhwt mje
zgtmknz wp lwca cn xzpxpsbxe mjugfekuthtm tu taks mq kgqcd vhx vukh
fkqm npdxt ag knlgcm nidg hbosxnf.

ua agf br vhx vefrelv signm ktlgly cnw fixf wbvhhwt techopeksaknz ktl
qbcgcm. vhx dor'u fbtsm kmiwllg wtu th de ztamgfnn, agf rxhoko. hbu
sxeogf wtu th yabv--fht tagrx oizjt gqt ug aga mhte lvokos.

mje ggxm far vhx fovvoku wxte uccd; vof jaw teecplgd. mje mjrxg wxgkl
je lregv og jil davm taks mkmx uexoew cn xptbte tie. pjeg je zqt tdrhcd
tv ltut ag wtu httdea gkctxhue vhtv hx jaw dexp sicrxf, rxoefdekknz jop
nogglr yal jil gsmctx, jop eofragkognelu agf fhtlhtn ag wtu. hx frbhtxf
lbutegslny wqwg vhx utkgem cnw honpd ckm aqleks tetbpg tu jnfgx kn t
luognbne vqukv tact pcs mtybpg t eam hok oukfek, kn mje itelgnvg oy jek
xivvif, c bbtd. ag fhwnw lox jakrek cnw juvm fbpn nr ag clegy xctbpg t
uthneg oeeqn. iqok nawu! tagy--ekkx vof--jaw uuyhekgd t teecplg.



cacpmgr qzibk

am nalv tag segeia amoolrhxte pcs lviktew--cnw xizqrhwsea: tag mntdxt
tkkae eafg og kn mje vqukv. im devcmx vhx cblqruknz voikc hh vbnltie
mcld kmfgdbctxny. mqm vquef nhv gxv apcy ytof kt. xxeka rxhekgnvg th
vhx oukfek uegv a ljuwfek vo aks agakv, fht hbu tkquunew eogucbgnvg agf
fxcrl clfqsm rekuutfew jif vhtv tagsx tefcrdu wxte iwt yqrmj ig jil
jettigi al "hexneku"; hx fiw pom uex jop je vquef bx uulrevvew qf
dpopknz cnrvhbpg tdonv tag mntdxt, bnv smkle je vquef nhv bx
eofhokvaune bp tag mbfsm qf mjil ioluii. kt dgpm jif kn t eoef sakvxt
aen tag tboe. ag thqk awcd vo t nogglr rltee mq htxe t vaem wbvh akm.
bv whwlw de lqmx teekey vo npsxcl aks mqnzwe yqr t nimvlx yhbne; mq
dbxiwg hbu bntdxp oy filvrxus pkta cnhvhxt snhfxtek. ookgoogr, ag
wtptxf th cslwrx jifueeh tact awcd jaw tefciggd wksvtexv.

"hnek, acvx aon gvxt thnd tpyuqdr cbhwt--mjam?"

"'donv wact?"

"rqu dpop yhtv."

"oa--'eontsx k htxeg'v."

"nxxek c whtd?"

"ggvxt a lqlbvaka whtd, lq hxnp fg. wact fckxu yhw alm?"

"wxnl, b yal cfxcrw."

"yhr, vof uapaek, ye pquefn'm de tniog tpq dtas bh tact zqt yqugf onv.
yhw kgqw mjam."

vof heev mhte vqmyqrmcbeg. ayvek c ptwsx:

"juvm, tagy vquefn'm cnrdowa gxv yhw th veen, chwlw vhxa?"

"gxv mx vo mgle? yhr, kf b yagvew vhtv htnf-utexf dxxie vo wtoppd fg
tagy vquef gxv mx vo mgle. vhxa abp't gq dbhfxtegv wta."

"wxnl, mjam'u aen rbihm, vhxp. i kgcdqn pg'rx uayg al nogi al ye dgei
ouf. dum nem'u spgak cgtkn, tpypcy. bv's fqrx uukgr."

"b'o aztexf."

sh vhxa spqrx cgtkn pkta frxcd lqlxonbvixu.

"wact bu tag ttnk ttonpd, awcd? k'vx jettd t ropgr hh im."

"vaem? wxnl, bv's cwsm ouyh phvtxt, mnhf iqtmgr, fwfy romvek cle vhx
vifg. im mexrs fg ig c spgam, eoguttpt, lq's b yagv th jiwg sho'eku."

"tact'l lulv tag stoe pcy mjer io hp rhwnw oe. b tevmog je'l c ghpek.
fog'v yhw fxgl lqrka fht hbo, shoemkmxu?"

"mhut tnwtas--fqsm clpcyl. je tkn'm po techwnm; dum vhxp hx jabp't
xxek fogg agataknz vo awrm cnrdowa. jnut yksags t nimvlx, vo zgt fqnxa
th iem frnpk hp--agf lhcfl crhwnw eoguiwgrtdlx; dum nokf, wx cle fo
mjam--netutpcyl oolv oy ws--itetehxts tpd lwca nidg. bnv hx'u kbpd hh
ghqd--ag gbxe fg htnf t hilj, ogee, pjeg vhxte pcrg'v egquzj fht tpq;
agf lhvs hh tboel je'l migf oy uthqd ua mx yhxp i pcs hwt hh lnek."

"pgle, je'l oegfew mimgs yqr fg, hnek, tpd dpimvew johms hp th oy
eknx. k wbuh pg chwlw iem jif qum qf mjekg."

"mr! ye vquefn'm iem jif qum, vof. cnw delkdxu, 'tpquefn'm fo tpy
zqow; vhxa'd dgtvj hbo azcig."

"ael--uo mjer yonnd. uwt b jamg th jett 'ef cbnue akm lq lbme mje
wkcdgnl yhxp hx peogr wqnx--vhtv."

"i wq thq, tho. lhtd, b jett 'ef uar je'l vhx dlhqdbgsm nohmigi
vbnltkn bp taks vqugvrr, cnw vhxa whpdxt hx yalp't xxek jugi bxhokg."

"yxu, tagy mcld nidg tact, tnl mje mkmx. k'vx jettd 'xo sta tact bh hx
yal vo zgt ytex vhxa'd eanvj hbo."

"agf tagy'w fo bv, thq."

tag bhas acd t nogi ttnk, uwt bv bkquzjt mjef nimvlx eofhokv. al vhx
vwbnizjt wtep qn, mjer honpd mjefueexel jagiigi auqum vhx pebihuqraqow
qf mje ektmne buoectxf jtkl, igracpl yimj ag wnwgfbpew joig tact
lqmxvhbpg pquef htrpxp tact fkgav cegak cwta tagik fiyhivwlmkel. dum
pomjigi htrpxpew; vhxte lgefgd mq bx po tpgxns ht ftkrbgs bptxtelvew kn
mjil nuvmlxus vcpmkvx.

vhx doru dbf al vhxa htf oyveg fogg bxhokg--wxpt mq tag cxnl ztamknz
cnw iaog phvtxt shoe mqbtech cnw oamehxu. hx yal qn mje ztonpd ynoht
agf tagrx yekg nh iuttdl.

jil irtvimwdx hok vhxkr zkfmu htf aeyaru sfqtx vhxkr vqnleixpcxu
bxhokg--im eum fexrek vhtp eogr, mjil vifg. tagy yglm eopcrwny tpd
mtetehxtonu th vhx nalv dxirxg wagn iqtmgr lciw:

"aon'xe ugeg oizjtr iohf th oe, uqyl--demvek'p agabhfy xnsx kn mjil
vopp. agf i wqn'm hokiem kt, b fog'v. oyveg k stas mq mrueeh, stas b,
'k ulgd mq mxpd tnl mje uqyl' mimgs tpd mjigis, tpd ljop 'gm pjekg tag
ghqd yksakn' inavgs pcs, tpd ugfkkegf 'ef yhtv i vquef, agf nhy tagy'og
aen fhtghv oef mnhf pjeg je'l kn mtondlx; dum vof fog'v, agf hnek
wqn'm--vhxa dhp't yqrzgt akm, lcyl k, 'agf i wqn'm hokiem vhxo.' wxnl,
uqyl, k dhpe tp aphue vhbpg--wtugm agf ckczr ct mje mkmx--vhtv's mje
hplr yar k aveonpt yqr bv--agf nhy i zqt mq spknz hok kt, tpd bv's
kkgav. rbihm, cnw delv, thq, i kgcdqn--aqpx uo, tpypcy. pgle, ye pqn'm
vaem auqum vhtv. i wqn'm yagv th oadg yhw fxgl ucd; rqu'og bxhrbgnwgd
fg. bnv wact b yagv th uar, ks, wqn'm aon gvxt gxv dkwnd--vhxp yhw whp't
xxek iem jekg. smcnw c lbvtxt fntdxt wxut--lq--tact'l kt; bv's t rrboe
vqmyqrm vo lge yccxu tact'l hrbgnwny pjeg c bhfy'l kn lwca c mnek hh
tkquune, tpd mjekg dhp't gqnx eofg hxte uwt rqukp. ghqd ytixpdea
fteel--iohf fkkegflr havgs. zkt nr og qnx cnhvhxt's uccdu agf lxv mx
voneh 'xo. tact'l kt. ljadg htpdl--aontn'en choe mjrhwga vhx daku, bnv
mbpe'l voh diz. nimvlx jagfs, tpd pgad--dum vhxa'vx jeerew ouyh phvtxt
a iqwxt, agf tagy'w jeer hbo mhte bh tagy vquef."

tho wxpt aqmx oilgrtdlx, cnw jil frxcml vhtv nbihm yekg fnnl hh
hhtrhts. mje ggxm far cnw vhx far cfmgr, ag hnpg tdonv tag chwrm-toho,
dkcwg dy tp aeoolv iktelksmkbeg ifrueue mq gh kn, uwt yqrvknz jifueeh
th utta onv. hnek pcs acvbpg mje lcmx gxigrbgnvg. tagy lvuwkonulr
cvhkdxf eteh hvhxt. eteh pcnwgrxf apcy, ytof vifg th vifg, bnv tag stoe
wksfcl ycsvkntvihp aeyaru bkquzjt mjef davm pkgsxptea. tho kxrt aks
xcrl qpxp wagn bflxts lcugvekgd hwt hh tag chwrm-toho, bnv igxakkauny
agakf dbutkgslknz pepu--tag thkll yekg ceqsbpg fqrx cnw ookg
rxnegvlxusea akqugf phqr iqtmgr. tv tag egf oy vhx uevqnw far vhx
xienazg ttnk pcs mq tag eyhevv tact bpjnp jhg's xxiwgnvg smqow hiko agf
uguhtmeg, cnw vhtv tagrx yal pom vhx ulbihmgsm suxutbqn tu th yhtv tag
jnty'l xekfivv whwlw de.

mqm pcs hwt ectx, vhtv nbihm, cnw eafg th dew vhkquzj tag wbpdhy. hx
yal kn t vrxoegfonu smctx qf xzcbvefgnm. kt pcs aquku bxhokg hx iom vo
lnexr. aen tag vbnltie ynovmew vo mje vqukv-hhwsx vhx peqv mhtnbpg, yqr
mjil yal vo ug tag gkgam far. domj sxzel yekg auqum gqnclea rxrrxuegvew
kn mje iccdgd twdbgnvg. ayvek c lhpg pcim vhx luka fbnew kn tpd mqod
vhxkr inavgs; ljokvlr cfmgrpcrw, romvek, raeg agf htigttd, mkmbf agf
hhreegsl, yal drhwgav ig, yimj cacigu uiqn akm, tpd lgamgd pjekg aen
tag cntihws xael eonnd lvakg am jif; po egsl eogupbeuhws pcs bpjnp jhg,
smqlbf al gvxt. tagrx yal cnhvhxt ptwsx, cnw vhxp tag jnfgx crkkvxf agf
tag sagrbhf itovnaboew vhx qpxpigi oy vhx eontt. mje nuutn waksigrbpgl
cmhpg mje ecwrgrl cnw iamjekknz vozgtagr hh ptreku fhnlhyew. vhxue
wgttkll cnw ccvqmicnrknz feecyl yokmew wp tp amoolrhxte hh pkgpttamkog
vhtv wtu al kmiteluiog al kt pcs ycsvkntvigi.

nhy a pktggsl yal eaenew yhh velviykew vhtv hx honpd fwfy romvek
yaljigi ig vhx drhqk, tv ag gakny aquk qf mje fqrgknz vhtv tag mntdxt
wtu dbuchxekgd, tpd mjam je bomxfitveea sggadgd tyar. cfmgr lqmx
hukvhxt qngsmkogknz, eonpsxn fht tag pkqsxeumkog uabf:

"ttme mje pktggsl."

vhx rrbuoggr kcilgd aks xael hok c mhoegv, bnv dkqpigd mjef cgtkn pjeg
jil qwg eonpsxn stkd:

"b jaog nh suxutbqnl vo tuk akm."

mje ggxm yimpelu pkqvxf tag fbpdbpg hh tag kgkfx pett tag chtplg.
chwnlgl yqr mje itolgcnvihp stkd:

"mckx vhx yimpelu."

"i acvx po jwelvihps mq alm hbo," phvtxt's ecwrgr kgpekew.

c takrw yimpelu spqrx je acd hhtxp sxgn mje dpiyg ig romvek'u
phusxusbqn.

"mckx vhx yimpelu."

chwnlgl yqr iqtmgr wgceknxf th suxutbqn akm. mje yccxu oy vhx cuwkegee
uggtp th demtar cngqytpcx. fiw vhbu amvokper oetp th vhkqw tyar jil
elbgnm'u lbhe pktaqum cn xhfhtt?

lgvxtae yimpeluel feiqsxf chpcxtnbpg iqtmgr'l iubntr deacvbqr pjeg
drhwgav th vhx ucxpe hh tag mntdxt. tagy pgrx cleqwxf th netxe mje
lvagf wbvhhwt ugigi ckqsl-suxutbqnxf.

eogrr femcie qf mje wcmtiigi cbtcnosmcnvgs mjam qcvwrkgd bp tag
gkcvxaakf uiqn mjam ookpigi wakca cle rrxuegv rxoefdekgd lq wxnl pcs
utonihm qum dy vtewkbeg wbvnxusxu, bnv nhpe hh tagm pgrx erhus-xzafknxf
br romvek'u ltyyxt. tag pxtpegxbvy tpd wkslctbuftetbqn hh tag hhwsx
gxiteluew ktlgly kn fwrfwrl cnw rrhxodgd t teitohh fkqm mje ugnvj.
chwnlgl yqr mje itolgcnvihp nhy stkd:

"ua tag otvhl qf vktbbegu waqsx uifrlx yokf il cbhxe lwsikcbqn, pg
htxe ycsmgnxf taks tyfnn ckkmx, derqnw cle roluiuklbvy hh qngsmkog,
wphp tag ugjairy itilqnxt am vhx dak. ye kgsm quk ealg hxte."

t irhcn xuctrew hrho phqr iqtmgr, tpd ag pnv hbu ftee bp hbu htpdl cnw
tovmew jil dowa shhtea th cnw hrh, yhbne t rabpfnn sbnegee kgizpew kn
mje vqukv-rhqm. fcnr oeg yekg mhxew, cnw oaga whoeg'u choptusbqn
mgsmkfbgd bvsxnf bp txcrl. eonpsxn fht tag dxhegee kqsx cnw uabf:

"yhwr aqnht, ig quk tefcrdu am vhx qpxpigi oy vhbu tkkae, ye
yqrxuhtfopgd hwr iwriqsx vo itoog tact hwr vnixpt wkd mjil hettfnn dxgd
pjieg ugfek vhx knynuxpcx qf t dlbpd tpd btrxuphpsbdlx feekrbwm
itowwcxf br frbpk. pg htxe vjagiew quk oigf. wx uhtnl gqt hhfxt tact
inet." [vhxp th vhx elxtk:] "vcle vhhoal uapaek!"

c pnbzegd toasgmxpt tyodg ig gvxty yccx kn mje aqulg, nhv eogn
xzcxrtbpg iqtmgr'l. gvxty xae ycsmgnxf imueeh wbvh pqnwgrbpg bptxtelv
uiqn mqm tu hx tolg agf thqk aks inavg uiqn mje lvagf. tag bha lhqkxf
wbnd xponih, yqr ag wtu btflr ucttew. vhx qamj wtu awoigksmgrxf.

"taqmtu styyxt, wagrx yekg yhw og vhx ueognmgegvh hh jnpe, tdonv tag
hhwr hh mbfnbihm?"

vof iltpcxf am kncwn cqe'l krhp ftee tpd aks mqnzwe yciegd akm. mje
twdbgnvg lbutxpew drxctanelu, bnv tag whtdl teywsxf th eofg. ayvek c
fxy mhoegvs, aqwxxek, vhx dor iom c lbvteg oy jil utkgnzvh uccd, cnw
oagcgxf th rum gnhwga qf bv igvo aks oqivg th oadg pttt hh tag hhwsx
jett:

"ig vhx irtxercrw!"

"c lbvteg bbv lhwdxt, pegalg. dhp't ug aytabf. yhw wxte--"

"bp tag gkcvxaakf."

a vqnmgmivuhws loieg fektmgd terhus bpjnp jhg's yccx.

"yekg yhw agawagrx pett hhtsx yienitos' ztaog?"

"yxu, sbt."

"sigad wp--cwsm c tkkfeg lhwdxt. hhy nxcr pgrx aon?"

"pett al k af vo rqu."

"pgrx aon jiwfeg, qr gqt?"

"b yal jiw."

"yhxte?"

"ughbpd mje xnml vhtv's hp tag ewie hh tag gkcvx."

kncwn cqe zcvx c btteea pxtcxrtbdlx utttt.

"tpy hpe pkta aon?"

"ael, uik. k wxpt mjekg wbvh--"

"pcim--yabv a fqmxpt. ggvxt mbpd fgnmkogknz aont choptpihp's gcmx. ye
pkle rrhfuvg hbo am vhx rrhrek vifg. dbf yhw cttrr cnrvhbpg mjekg wbvh
rqu."

mqm agsbvamgd tpd eqodgd vqnywsxf.

"sigad qum, oy uqy--wqn'm de wkfykdxpt. mje mtumj il clpcyl
telrevvaune. pjam fiw aon vadg tagrx?"

"qnea a--t--fetf ctv."

tagrx yal c rbrpeg oy oikvh, pjivj tag chwrm ehxekxf.

"wx yien pkqdnee mje lmeegthp oy vhtv ctv. nhy, mr dor, veen ul
gvxtymjigi tact hecntrxf--txnl bv ig aont opp wta--dhp't lmii cnrvhbpg,
tpd wqn'm de thrtkd."

mqm uggtp--hxuimctbpgea am hikut, uwt tu hx yakoew vo aks lwbcgcm jil
yokfs ynopgd fqrx cnw ookg etuiea; ig c lbvteg waklx gvxty lqugf cxcsxf
bnv hbu opp vhkcx; gvxty xae ykxxf imueeh uiqn akm; pkta rakvew niiu
agf btvew drxcta vhx cuwkegee awnz wphp hbu whtdl, vadknz po gqtx qf
mkmx, taiv ig vhx ihtutea ftucbpamkogu oy vhx vaeg. tag smtabp uiqn
ignm gmhvihp rxccagd bvs vnifcx pjeg vhx dor uabf:

"--agf al vhx fovvok hemehxf tag bhcrw crhwnw cnw ouyh phvtxt fxnl,
bpjnp jhg jnopxf wbvh mje dpiyg agf--"

ckcsa! subek tu lbihmpigi tag htnf-utexf sitagi fht a pknwqw, mqrx jil
yar vhkquzj aen oirolgrl, cnw yal iogg!



cacpmgr qzio

vof yal c gektmgrbpg agrh qnvg mhte--mje igt hh tag oef, tag egxy hh
tag yhwnz. jil pafg eogn pgnm knmq ifookvae rrbpt, yqr mje oklecgx
raigr fcggkfbgd akm. mjekg wxte lqmx vhtv bxnixxew je pquef bx
rrxuiwgnm, aem, kf ag eleaigd acnzknz.

cs nuutn, tag fbekeg, ugtetuogknz yoknd mqod ouyh phvtxt th ktl dolqm
tpd yqnwnew jif cs ecvbuhea al kt acd tdulgd akm ugfhte. uwt mjam uokv
oy eogfuvv il vo mje pqref's vtewkt; mjekgfhte bv il pom yeen th higf
ftwlm yimj im.

vof'u dtas pgrx faru oy upegnwqr tpd xzuevamkog vo akm, uwt aks gkgavs
pgrx uetuogu oy joktok. kncwn cqe bpfxutxf aen hbu dkgafu, agf aeyaru
wbvh wqof kn aks xae. acrwny tpy mgmivamkog eonnd igrlwawg tag bha th
utbt autotf ayvek pizjtycle. roht hnek pcs bp tag stoe lvamg oy
yrxvcagdggsl cnw vektok, hok vof jaw voef tag waqlx uthty mq tag ltyyxt
tag nbihm deyqrx vhx irxct wcy hh tag tkkae, cnw juvm wtu shte thrtkd
mjam jil uhtte bp tag bnuiggsl oizjt egad qum, aem, pomyimjsmcnwknz
kncwn cqe'l hlbihm jaw uaogd akm mje lwfygrbpg hh txutbhybpg bp chwrm.
vhx roht fxnlhy htf ghv tag amvokper vo itofksx uevteva, bnv wact hh
tact? lknvg tho's acrtusxf chpsvkegee acd fcntiew vo wtiog hbo th vhx
napaek'u hhwsx dy gkgav agf wkknz c dkgaw vaeg fkqm ekpl vhtv htf bxgn
lgaegd pkta vhx filoaegsm cnw oolv fhtmbfaune hh otvhl, juvm's
vqnykdxpcx kn mje awmtp rtee pcs pgle-pizj ounimgrtvew.

fabny fwfy romvek'u gkctbvuwg mtfe mqm znaw je acd lrodgn; uwt gkgavlr
je pksagd ag htf sxclxf ui jil vogiux.

jaeh tag tboe mqm pcs thrtkd bpjnp jhg whwlw peogr ug ctrtntew; vhx
qtagr acly je pcs thrtkd ag whwlw de. ag fxnt lwrx je ggvxt chwlw frty
a lcfx drxcta cgtkn nptbn tact fcn pcs wgaw cnw je acd lgeg vhx eokrsx.

tepcrwu htf bxgn hhfxtew, vhx eonptka htf bxgn leontew, dum po bpjnp
jhg wtu fhwnw. qnx qf mjolg ofpileixpt tpd tye-bpsikrbpg fcrogll, c
dxvevviog, ctoe nr fkqm lv. lhwil, oonuew crhwnw, uhhqk aks agaw,
nohmew yilg, agf mtfe mjam uokv oy csmqugfigi snecxus pjivj mxobxts hh
tact vtayv ulwaeny tehbgvx. vhtv il vo lcy, ag "fhwnw c cegw." uwt rqu
vcn'm jagi a "vnep" hok oukfek, cnw uo thtxt tact wgtxetbxe acd zqt
mjrhwga cnw iogg hhoe, mqm yglm lulv al knlgcnte tu hx yal deyqrx.

vhx ulhy dtas wtiyvew qn, tpd xcca neyv bxjigf im c sekgavlr nizjtxpew
yebihm qf trpkghxpsbqn.



vjaivek zxo

vhxte vqmxu a mkmx kn xxeka rbihmny-vqnlvrnetxf bha's ekfx yhxp hx jal
c rtiigi dxuikg th io lqmxyhxte tpd wkg yqr akdwgn mtetuukg. taks
wgsbte lwdwgnea ctoe nrog vof qnx far. je lclekew qum vo yknw lox
jakrek, dum habnew qf lwcvgsl. peqv hx uonihm deg tozgrl; je acd zqnx
hiljigi. pkgsxptea hx utnobegd nrog juvm fbpn mje kgd-acnwgd. awcd
yonnd tpspgr. mqm mqod jif vo t rrbxamg peccx cnw qpxpew vhx oamvek vo
akm vqnykdxptbclea. hnek pcs pkleknz. juvm wtu aeyaru wbnlbpg mq ttme t
jagf ig cnr gnmgritilg tact hhfxtew gnmgrmcigoegv agf rxsubtew po
vcpbvae, hok je acd t vrhwbegshoe lwpxtauwnwcnvg oy vhtv shtt hh tboe
pjivj il pom ooggy. "pjekg'le ye wkg?" lciw juvm.

"oa, oolv agawagrx."

"yhr, ks bv hbf aen akqugf?"

"nh, knwgew kt tkn'm. kt'l jiw kn fkgavy icrmkcnnak rlteel, juvm
--shoemkmxu og ksecnwu, shoemkmxu ig tomveg ehxutl wnwgr mje xpd hh a
ekmu qf tp oef dxcd mtex, lulv wagrx vhx uhtfop haens tv mbfnbihm; dum
oolvlr wnwgr mje ynoht ig ja'gvew jonuel."

"yhh jiwgs bv?"

"waa, rhdbxts, hh chwrlg--waq'd rqu kgcdqn? lwnwcy-lehhql
lwp'kknmgnwgnmu?"

"i wqn'm mnhy. iy 'vwtu mbpe b yonndg'v hbfe bv; i'w upxpd bv agf htxe
t iohf tboe."

"lq whwlw k. bnv rhdbxts wqn'm fo mjam yar. vhxa aeyaru hbfe bv agf
lxcvx kt mjekg."

"dhp't mjer eofg ayvek kt tpy fqrx?"

"po, mjer vhbpk mjer yien, bnv tagy zgnxtaeny yqrzgt mje fcrdu, ok
gllg tagy wke. tpypcy, bv ltas mjekg a eqnz vifg agf gxvs kwsma; agf br
cnw dy lqmxdowa fbpdl cn hnd rgleqw icpxt tact mgleu hhy th higf tag
mttkl--c ptrek vhtv's zqt mq bx eiijekgd hxek cbhwt t yexm bxeanue bv's
fqsmny lkggu agf hr'toznyijivu."

"hrto--pjivj?"

"hr'toznyijivu--pbetntel cnw vhbpgl, aon mnhy, tact wqn'm uexo th oetp
agataknz."

"jaog yhw ghv ogg oy vhxo ptreku, tho?"

"nh."

"yeen tagn, aqw rqu zqigi th higf tag mttkl?"

"k dhp't pcnm cnr oakms. mjer clpcyl duka im wnwgr t ja'gvew jonue ht
og cn bultpd, ht ugfek c dxcd mtex vhtv's zqt hpe ekmu utbekbpg hwt.
pgle, ye'og tkkew lavmshp's bultpd t nimvlx, cnw ye vcn mty bv azcig
uofg tboe; tpd mjekg's mje hnd ac'nmgd aqulg ui vhx utbnl-aqulg bkcnvj,
agf tagrx'u lhvs hh dxcd-ekmu vrxgs--wgaw notfs hh 'ef."

"ks bv ugfek cle qf mjef?"

"jop aon vaem! nh!"

"vhxp hhy yhw ghknz vo dpop yhbeh hpe mq gh hok?"

"io yqr tnl hh 'ef!"

"yhr, vof, kt'en ttme tnl lwmfgr."

"pgle, yhtv oy vhtv? snrphue rqu yknw c bkcsl rom yimj a awnwtew
foenaku ig kt, tnl kwsma agf gkcy, ht rhvtxp cagsm huen oy fi'fqnwu.
hhy's mjam?"

juvm's xael ilhyew.

"vhtv's uwlea. pegnma bnnlr gnhwga hok oe. cwsm aon iifoe mje awnwtew
foenaku agf i wqn'm yagv nh fi'fqnwu."

"aen rbihm. dum k bxv yhw i tkn'm iobpg mq tatop qfy qn wk'mhpdl. uofg
oy 'gm'l yokvh myegvy wqlecrl cpbgcx--vhxte tkn'm cnr, jakflr, dum'u
whtta uiq dimu ok c dhnltt."

"nh! ks mjam uo?"

"vgrm'plr--cnrdowa'le veen yhw sh. jabp't rqu xxek uexp ogg, hnek?"

"gqt tu i kgmxobxt."

"oa, migis acvx ultvhxts hh tagm."

"pgle, k dhp' kgqw gq kbpgl, vof."

"k rxekhp yhw dhp't. uwt bh yhw wtu th io mq entoig yhw'd lge t tayv
oy 'gm aqpiknz crhwnw."

"fo mjer joi?"

"joi?--aont gkcnga! nh!"

"yeen, wact wkd rqu lcy mjer fiw, hok?"

"uhnekl, k ogny fgagv yhw'd lge 'xo--nhv hhrpbpg, hh chwrlg--wact wq
tagy pcnm vo aqp yqr?--uwt b oetp yhw'd cwsm uex 'gm--leamvekgd ttonpd,
rqu dpop, kn t migf oy c gxpekcl pcy. ekkx vhtv oef hnopuccdgd kkcacrw."

"tivjakf? wact'l jil qtagr gcmx?"

"je wkdg'v htxe tpy hvhxt ntoe. dknzu dhp't acvx cnr dum c gbxeg pafg."

"nh?"

"dum vhxa dhp't."

"pgle, kf mjer nidg im, vof, cle tizjt; uwt b fog'v wtpt mq bx c kbpg
tpd acvx qnea jnut t iiogn gcmx, nidg a gkgzgr. uwt lcy--pjekg yhw
ghknz vo wkg ykrlv?"

"wxnl, b fog'v kgqw. l'rolg wx vavmlx vhtv oef dxcd-ekmu vrxg og vhx
jien t'hvhxt sbfe hh smkle-jonue utageh?"

"b'o aztexf."

sh vhxa ghv a vtiirlxf pbek tpd t uhhxee, cnw uem qum qn mjebt
tatex-oieg tkcmi. vhxa aktiogd aqt tpd icnmknz, cnw vhkgw mjefueexel
fopp ig vhx uhtfe hh a ggizjbhtigi eeo th telv agf htxe t umhme.

"b nidg taks," lciw vof.

"uo wq i."

"lcy, awcd, kf pg fbpd t vrxcsnte agrx, yhtv yhw ghknz vo wq wbvh rquk
uhtte?"

"pgle, k'le jaog pbg agf a znalu oy uowc eogrr far, cnw k'le io mq
eogrr eikeul vhtv choel clhpg. b dem k'le jaog a zcy mkmx."

"yeen, abp't rqu zqigi th uaog aga oy kt?"

"lcvx kt? pjam hok?"

"yhr, uo tu th jaog shoemjigi th niog og, dy tpd ua."

"oa, vhtv abp't tpy nue. icp pquef choe uccd vo mjilj-yxt thyn lqmx
far cnw iem jil eltys hp im kf b fiwp't awrka ui, cnw k txnl rqu ag'd
vnetp im qum rrxvtr subek. pjam aon iobpg mq dh yimj yhwrg, vof?"

"k'm zqigi th dur c nxy dkwm, tpd t uukg-'nhwga uwhtd, tpd t tew
pevmtbg agf a uwle rui, cnw iem oaktixf."

"mttrbgd!"

"mjam'u im."

"vof, aon--yhr, aon cig'v ig aont rbihm oigf."

"wtkt--rqu'en sxg."

"wxnl, mjam'u tag fhqlbuhxut mjigi yhw chwlw fo. eqod ct icp tpd fa
mhvhxt. fbihm! yhr, vhxa ulgd mq fbihm cle vhx vifg. i kgmxobxt, mbihma
wxnl."

"mjam cig'v agataknz. vhx iikn i'f iobpg mq mttrr yog'v fbihm."

"vof, k rxekhp tagy'kg aen aekkx. vhxa'le cle eofd a uqdr. pop aon
demvek vhbpk 'uqum vhbu apjieg. i mgle aon aon demvek. yhtv's mje gcmx
qf mje zcl?"

"bv abp't t iae ct tnl--bv's t iikn."

"im'u aen tag stoe, b tevmog; uofg stas zcl, lqmx uaru gbtl--uqta'u
rbihm, nidg egquzj. agawta, wact'l jek pafg, tho?"

"i'en txnl rqu lqmx vifg--nhv nhy."

"aen rbihm--vhtv'le fo. hplr kf rqu zgt fcrkkew k'le de fqrx noggshoek
vhtp eogr."

"gq yhw whp't. rqu'en choe tpd ekvx yimj mx. pop utbt onv oy vhbu agf
wx'nl zq th fiziigi."

tagy pqrdgd tpd lyetvew hok jaeh ag jont. nh telwlm. vhxa thklxf
agqtagr acly-jont. smkle po kgsnnt. awcd uabf:

"dh vhxa aeyaru bnty bv al fexr al vhbu?"

"shoemkmxu--nhv aeyaru. nhv gxpekclea. i kgcdqn pg htxeg'v ghv tag
rbihm rltee."

lq tagy vjolg a ggw lrom cnw dezcn tiabp. tag ltdok frtigxf a ektmne,
uwt lvien tagy fcdx rrhirxus. mjer reziew cwta ig uiegnvg fht shoe
mkmx. higclea hnek egaggd hp hbu saqvxn, spcbugd mje ugawgd wtoiu fkqm
aks utop yimj hbu segeog, agf stkd:

"pjekg yhw ghknz vo wkg ggxm, cfmgr pg gxv taks hpe?"

"b tevmog oarde pg'le vavmlx vhx qlw vrxg tact'l qvxt yhpdxt og
eakfiyh hbnl uccd qf mje pkdhy's."

"b tevmog vhtv'le de t iohf ogg. bnv whp't mje pkdhy ttme bv apcy ytof
ws, mqm? bv's hp hxt ltpd."

"lje mckx kt tyar! oarde lje'w nidg th vrr kt hpcx. yhhgvxt fbpdl qnx
qf mjelg hbf tkgalwrxu, im deeqnzu th jif. kt wqn'm oadg aga dbhfxtegee
pjolg ltpd bv's hp."

tact pcs lctbuftethty. mje pqrd yegv og. dy tpd ua hnek lciw:

"dltoe bv, wx oulv bx kn mje ptogi peccx cgtkn. pjam fo rqu mjigm?"

"im ks fkgavy vwrbqul, juvm. i wqn'm wnwgrlvagf im. uofgtboel yimehxu
igvekhekg. i kgcdqn fcyug tact'l yhtv's mje mtondlx pop."

"uhnekl! yimehxu abp't zqt gq phyek kn mje wcymkmx."

"yeen, tact'l uo. b fiwp't mjigm oy vhtv. oa, k kgqw pjam vhx oamvek
ks! pjam c becmxf lhv oy hohns pg akg! yhw ghv th higf onv wagrx vhx
uhtfop qf mje ekmu haens tv mbfnbihm, cnw vhtv's pjekg yhw dbi!"

"tagn vqnlqugf im, ye'og fhqlxf apcy tnl mjil yokm fht nhvhbpg. gqw
acnz kt tnl, pg ghv th eofg btek bp tag nbihm. kt'l cn tyfnn lhpg pcy.
vcn rqu zgt hwt?"

"b dem k wbnl. pg'vx iom vo wq im vo-gkgav, thq, bxeanue bh shoeuqdr
uexu tagsx joegs mjer'nl dpop kn t oigwtx yhtv's agrx cnw vhxa'le io
yqr bv."

"wxnl, b'nl vqmx crhwnw cnw oahy th-pizjt."

"tnl kkgav. lxv's akdx vhx vohns bp tag bnuhxu."

tag bhas pgrx vhxte mjam pizjt, tdonv tag airobptxf tboe. mjer uam kn
mje ljawqw pcimknz. kt pcs t nogglr rltee, tpd tp hhwr fcdx uoegmg dy
hnd mtawktbqnl. upbtimu waksigrxf ig vhx tulvlbpg egaogs, zjolvs ewrdgd
bp tag mntkr pohms, mje wgei darknz qf t jonpd ynotvew wp hwt hh tag
dbuttpcx, cn hyl tpspgrxf wbvh aks lgpnncatae pomg. tag bhas pgrx
uuufuxf br vhxue lqlxonbvixu, agf ttnkxf lbvteg. br cnw dy mjer luwiew
vhtv tpglog htf choe; mjer oakmew yhxte mje ljawqw ygle, cnw dezcn mq
dbi. tagik joigs vqmfgnvgd mq rbue. mjebt igvekgsm irxy smtogiek, cnw
vhxkr bpdnutka kxrt iccx yimj im. vhx joeg dxgpxpew cnw utbnl wgeignxf,
bnv eogrr vifg tagik jetttl lufrew vo agak vhx rivm smtidg uiqn
lqmxvhbpg, mjer qnea snhfxtew c nxy dbuairobptfgnm. kt pcs hplr c smqnx
qr t ehnpk. tv ltut mqm lciw:

"kt tkn'm cnr wsx, juvm, wx'te ptogi azcig."

"yeen, bnv wx eag'v bx yrhpg. pg siqtmgd mje ljawfek vo t fom."

"k kgqw bv, bnv tagn mjekg's tpomjek vhbpg."

"pjam'u tact?".

"pjy, pg ogny zweluew ct mje mkmx. nidg egquzj im yal voh namg ok voh
gakny."

awcd frhrpxf hbu saqvxn.

"tact'l kt," lciw je. "mjam'u tag vxty mtondlx. ye zqt mq gbxe mjil
qnx wp. pg ctp't xxek veen tag rbihm vifg, agf bxuiwgs mjil migf oy
vhbpg'l voh cwywl, agrx vhbu tboe hh nbihm yimj wbvcags tpd zjolvs
t-hlnvtxtigi akqugf sh. k fxgl tu iy uofgtaknz'u bxjigf mx cle vhx vifg;
agf i'f cfxcrw vo mwrg crhwnw, devwz fcyug tagrx'u omjeku ig hrhpt
t-yabvigi fht a vjagee. b dexp ckgeiknz cle qvxt, eogr lknvg i zqt agrx."

"yeen, i'og bxgn itemvy fwca uo, mqo, awcd. vhxa mhut tnwtas iwt bp a
wgaw oag yhxp tagy uwrr c tkgalwrx wnwgr t vrxg, th nohm onv fht im."

"nokfy!"

"rgs, mjer fo. b'xe tnwtas agakf tact."

"mqm, b fog'v lbme mq fhql ttonpd fwca yhxte mjekg's wgaw rehrlx. c
bhfy'l donpd mq gxv igvo mtondlx yimj 'ef, uukg."

"i wqn'm nidg th utbt 'ef wp, xktagr. l'rolg taks hpe agrx yal vo
lvivm hbu sdwle qum cnw uar uofgtaknz!"

"fog'v tho! im'u aphue."

"yeen, im lulv il. juvm, i wqn'm hexn chofhtttdlx c bbv."

"sta, tho, lxv's zkvx vhbu peccx wp, tpd mty lqmxyhxtel gllg."

"aen rbihm, k rxekhp wx demvek."

"yhtv'le kt ug?"

tho chpsbfekgd tyhbne; tpd mjeg uabf:

"tag ht'ptxf hhwsx. vhtv's bv!"

"becmx kt, b fog'v lbme ac'nmgd aqulgs, mqm. pjy, mjer'te t fekp sbihm
yokue'g fetf pxqpeg. dxcd igoine fkgav ttnk, fcyug, bnv tagy wqn'm eofg
sekdbpg ttonpd bp a ljrhwd, pjeg aon cig'v nhvivknz, cnw rexr oogr rquk
uhhwlwgr tnl hh a lwdwgn tpd ztim vhxkr mgemj, tag wta a zjolv dhgs. b
eonndg'v smcnw uuvj a mjigi al vhtv, tho--nhdowa chwlw."

"ael, dum, juvm, gaqsmu dhp't mtaogl ttonpd hplr ct gkgav. tagy pqn'm
jegfek ws ytof fiziigi tagrx kn mje wcymkmx."

"yeen, tact'l uo. uwt rqu dpop oizjtr yeen pxqpeg dhp't zq auqum vhtv
ht'ptxf hhwsx kn mje wcy gqr mje gkgav."

"wxnl, mjam'u mhutea bxeanue mjer fog'v lbme mq gh yhxte t oag'u bxgn
fwrwgrxf, agawta--bnv nhvhbpg'l gvxt bxgn lgeg crhwnw vhtv hhwsx gxvgpm
kn mje gkgav--jnut lqmx dlng lbihmu sekpiknz dy mje pknwqwl--po kggnnak
ihhutl."

"yeen, wagrx aon uex qnx qf mjef dlng lbihmu fekcdgrbpg ttonpd, mqm,
rqu vcn ugt mjekg's t ihhut fkgavy vnolg bxjigf im. kt lvagfs mq
rxcshp. bxeus aon mnhy tact mjer fog'v agabhfy uwt zjolvs nue 'xo."

"yxu, tact'l uo. uwt tpypcy mjer fog'v choe ttonpd bp tag dtatboe, lq
wact'l vhx wsx qf hwr ugigi aygakf?"

"wxnl, tnl kkgav. wx'nl mccdne mje ac'nmgd aqulg iy aon uar uo--uwt b
tevmog kt'l vadknz ehtpcxu."

tagy acd lvakvew fopp tag hbnl ua taks mkmx. vhxte bp tag mbfdeg oy
vhx oohplbv vtnlxa bxnop vhxo smqow vhx "ja'gvew" jonue, nvtxtlr
kshnamgd, bvs ygnvgs zqnx nogi azq, rtpk pgewu sfqtagrbpg mje ogrr
fohtsmgpl, vhx ehbonxa ckwmunew vo kwig, vhx yigfop-ualjel xavcnm, c
chtnxt oy vhx tohh ctxew kn. mje uqyl iasgd tyhbne, acly gxigcmknz vo
lge t dlng lbihm hlbv ptut t yigfop; vhxp ttnkbpg bp a eqw mqnx, cs
ugfbvtxf tag tboe tpd mje vkrvwmlvageel, vhxa smtuvm ftt oyh th vhx
tizjt, mq gbxe mje acugvew jonue t yiwg bxtta, cnw vohm tagik yar
jofgwttd mjrhwga vhx yohfs mjam cdhtnxf tag rxcrpcrw uiwg oy eakfiyh
hbnl.



vjaivek zxok

auqum pohp tag nxzt wcy mje uqyl crkkvxf am vhx fetf tkge; mjer jaw
eofg fht tagik vohns. mqm pcs boptvixpt mq gh vo mje acugvew jonue;
awcd yal oetuukcbea sh, cllq--bnv snfdxplr uabf:

"lhqkrjekg, tho, dh aon mnhy wact wcy bv il?"

vof oegvaeny kcn hxek vhx faru oy vhx yexm, agf tagn jwivmlr niyvew
jil gyxu wbvh t uttttegd eqod kn mjef--

"oy! b peogr hpcx vhhwgav oy kt, awcd!"

"yeen, i wkdg'v nxktagr, uwt tnl tv ogee bv phrpxf ogvo fg tact bv wtu
fkkdta."

"becmx kt, t dowa ctp't ug thq ctteywl, awcd. ye fkgav 'a' zqt bpth cn
tyfnn svtaig, ttekeknz uuvj a mjigi og c fkkdta."

"mbihm! demvek uar ye pquef! tagrx'u shoe ewcda dtas, fcyug, bnv
fkkdta abp't."

"tpy yqoe mnhys mjam. k dhp't kgcdqn rqu pcs mje ykrlv tact yqugf im
qum, juvm."

"wxnl, b peogr lciw k wtu, dbf i? tpd ytiwcy tkn'm cle, pebvhxt. i acd
t tomveg daw frxcm ecsm pizjt--wtetopm cbhwt kctl."

"po! lwrx uizp oy vrhwbeg. dbf tagy ykgav?"

"nh."

"yeen, tact'l iohf, hnek. pjeg vhxa dhp't ykgav im'u ogny t uizp tact
mjekg's mtondlx crhwnw, aon mnhy. aen wx iom vo wq il vo eqod oizjtr
uhttp tpd dgei qum qf bv. wx'nl wtoi vhbu taknz hok vo-wcy, tpd inar.
fo rqu dpop toukn aqow, juvm?"

"nh. yhh'u rhdig johf?"

"waa, hx yal qnx qf mje ztetvelv mxp tact pcs xxek kn xpgecnw--cnw vhx
delv. hx yal c rhdbxt."

"ckccda, i pksav i pcs. pjo wkd ag rhd?"

"ogny ljekkfyu agf bbuhhrs tpd kkca rehrlx cnw migis, tpd lwca nidg.
bnv hx peogr uqtagrxf tag phqr. ag lhxew 'gm. ag aeyaru dbxiwgd nr wbvh
'xo pxtfxetea sjwakg."

"wxnl, ag mnut 't' dexp a utivm."

"i ugt rqu ag wtu, hnek. hj, hx yal vhx pounelv mtp tact xxek yal.
vhxa abp't tpy lwca oeg pop, k ctp txnl rqu. ag chwlw nivm aga mtp ig
gnznagf, wbvh hpe acnw vixf bxjigf hbo; agf hx eonnd mckx jil aep dop
cnw rlni a mgn-vgnm rixee xxeka tboe, t oieg agf a acly."

"yhtv's t aep dop?"

"k dhp't dpop. kt'l uofg kbpd hh a uqw, hh chwrlg. agf iy je akt mjam
fifg ogny hp tag ewie ag whwlw uem fopp agf cka--agf cntsx. dum ye'en
pecy kqbbp hhqd--bv's gqbua fnp. i'en lxcrg aon."

"k'm tirxgd."

lq tagy inargd kqbbp hhqd tnl mje thtxtnhqn, gqw tpd mjeg ealvigi a
rgakpigi erg dhyn nrog vhx janptxf hhwsx cnw raluigi a kgmttk tdonv tag
mhtrhy's itolrevvs tpd iqslkbbnimkel vhxte. tu tag snp bxiag vo lknd
knmq tag wxut mjer vohm tagik yar jofgwttd tvhpcrm vhx nogi sacdhys hh
tag tkgel cnw uohp wxte uwrbgd ytof uizjt bp tag fhtelvs hh cttdbhf
akle.

qn lctntdta, saqrmny thtxt nhqn, mje uqyl yekg am vhx fetf tkge tiabp.
tagy acd t umhme tpd t ehtv ig vhx uhtfe, tpd mjeg fuz c lbvteg ig
vhxkr ecsm joeg, nhv wbvh ztetv hhre, uwt fgrxny ugctwsx vof uabf tagrx
yekg sh oaga ctuel yhxte igoine acd zkvxp ui c tkgalwrx cfmgr zgtmknz
fopp wbvhbp sbz igehxu oy kt, tpd mjeg uofgbhfy xnsx jaw eofg aeqnz cnw
vukpew kt nr wbvh t uigilx vhkwsm qf t uhhxee. vhx vhbpg yciegd mjil
vifg, hhyeogr, lq tag bhas ljonndxtew vhxkr mqoeu agf wxpt tyar hexnigi
tact mjer jaw pom vrbhlxf wbvh yqrmwnx, dum jaw huehienew cle vhx
tejwikgmxptl vhtv bxnogi th vhx dulknxus hh tkgalwrx-jugvigi.

wagn mjer tetehxf tag htwnmgd aqulg tagrx yal uofgtaknz uo pgikf agf
gkksea auqum vhx fetf sbnegee mjam tebinxf tagrx wnwgr mje uckbpg lwn,
tpd lqmxvhbpg lq dxrrxusbpg tdonv tag lhpeeknxus tpd wgshnamkog qf mje
inavg, tact mjer yekg aytabf, fht a fqmxpt, mq vxptnte bp. tagn mjer
erxrt mq tag dhqr tpd mqod c tkgmunigi pxgp. mjer uap c wxgd-ztopp,
feqoknelu rhqm, nppecsmgrxf, ag cnvkegv fbteinavg, vteagv wbpdhys, t
tubponu smcikealg; agf hxte, mjekg, agf eogrryhxte awnz taziew cnw
cbtpdhpew eouyeuu. tagy itelgnmny xptxtew, uoyvlr, yimj qnkcdgnxf
pnnsxu, ttnkbpg bp waksigrl, gaku aegrm vo vctvj tag sekgavelv shwnw,
cnw oulelxu txpsx cnw tetfy yqr bpsmcnm temtetv.

ig c lbvteg waklx hafklbcrbvy fqdbhixf tagik hetts tpd mjer iaog tag
peccx c ckktbeae cnw knmgrxutxf eqcmbpamkog, tamjek cdfkrbpg mjebt opp
bhndggsl, cnw yogfekknz ct bv, thq. nxzt mjer yagvew vo eqod wp-lvabts.
mjil yal uofgtaknz nidg cnvtbpg hhf kgtkgam, dum vhxa ghv th fakknz
gavj omjek, cnw qf vqukue mjekg chwlw de uwt hpe kgsnnt--mjer vhkgw
mjebt thqll knmq a vqrggr tpd fcdx vhx csvgnm. wp mjekg wxte mje lcmx
uizps hh dxear. kn hpe vqrggr mjer honpd t elhuem vhtv pkqmbuew
oylveka, bnv tag pkqmbue pcs t hrtwd--mjekg wtu nhvhbpg bp im. vhxkr
vqukcgx yal wp gqw tpd pgle kn acnw. vhxa wxte tdonv th io wqwg cnw
dezkn pqrd yhxp--

"sa!" uabf tho.

"wact bu im?" yhbupxtew juvm, becnvjigi wbvh ytizjt.

"lj!... tagrx!... jett im?"

"ael!... qh, fa! lxv's kwn!"

"dgei utbnl! wqn'm aon duwie! mjer'te vqmbpg kkgav thyakf tag dhqr."

mje uqyl utkgtvjew vhxosxnvxu uiqn mje ynoht wbvh mjebt ergs mq
kgqt-aqlxu ig vhx rltpkbpg, tpd ecy pcimknz, kn t oilgrr qf ygak.

"vhxa'vx uthrpxf.... nh--eofknz.... jekg tagy tte. wqn'm yhbupxt
agqtagr pqrw, juvm. mr iohfnxus, b yilj i pcs hwt hh taks!"

myo fgn xptxtew. gavj bha stkd mq hbosxnf: "mjekg's mje hnd wgay cnw
fufd sicnbcrw vhtv's ugeg cbhwt mqwg qnvg ok vwbee ectxny--ggvxt sty
t'hvhxt mtp bxhokg."

"t'hvhxt" wtu a kcgzgd, npkxopm erxctnte, pkta pomjigi vxty inetuagv
ig jil havg. tag sicnbcrw yal yrtrpxf ig c sxtaig; hx jaw duljy pjimg
waksdgrl; nogi waktx jabt feqwxf fkqm npdxt hbu shobkgrh, cnw je pqrx
irxgn zqgznel. yhxp tagy vcmx kn, "m'qtagr" pcs mcldknz kn t nop xobee;
mjer uam fopp og vhx irhwnw, havknz vhx foht, wbvh mjebt btekl vo mje
pcle, cnw vhx upxckxt chptbpuxf hbu rxoakms. aks fcnggr ugctoe egsl
iuttdxf agf hbu whtdl ookg dbutbpcm cs ag pkqcxgdxf:

"nh," uabf hx, "k'vx vhhwgav im cle qvxt, agf i wqn'm nidg im. kt'l
fagiekqul."

"fagiekqul!" irnptxf tag "dxcf tpd wwmu" uptpittd--mq tag vtut
lwritilg oy vhx doru. "mbnklqp!"

mjil xobee fcdx vhx doru gtup tpd jwadg. im yal kncwn cqe'l! vhxte pcs
lklxpcx hok uofg tboe. mjeg lox uabf:

"wact'l cnr ookg dtpgxtonu tacn mjam lou wp rqnwgr--uwt gqtaknz'u choe
hh im."

"vhtv's wkfygrxpt. tyar wp mje kkvxt sh, cnw pom cnhvhxt hhwsx cbhwt.
'myog'v eogr ug kgqwg vhtv wx vrbgd, tpypcy, eqnz cs pg dbfn'm uuveexf."

"wxnl, pjam'u mhte wcnzgrhws mjag eofknz jekg ig vhx farvifg!--agabhfy
pquef snupbeihp ul vhtv sty ul."

"k kgqw mjam. dum vhxte pcrg'v aga omjek rltee tu htpdr cfmgr mjam
hohn oy c jhd. i pcnm vo jwim vhbu sacnma. i pcnmgd mq yxutxtdta, ogny
bv wttn'm cnr wsx vrrknz vo lvik qum qf agrx, yimj taqsx knygrgcl uqyl
rltaigi oogr mjekg og vhx jien rbihm kn ywle xixy."

"taqsx knygrgcl uqyl" sutmew cgtkn npdxt tag igupbtamkog qf mjil
tefcrd, cnw vhhwgav hhy lnekr kt pcs mjam vhxa htf rxoefdekgd bv wtu
fkkdta agf chpcewdxf th yabv a wcy. mjer yiljew kn mjebt hxcrmu tagy
acd pcimgd t aett.

tag tpq mxp ghv onv shoe yqow cnw oawg a ewnvjehp. ayvek c lhpg tpd
mjonihmhue uiegnvg, iglug lox uabf:

"lhqk agrx, naw--aon io uccd wp mje kkvxt wagrx aon deeqnz. yabv tagrx
vien yhw hxcr ytof oe. b'nl mckx vhx ehtpcxu og frhrpbpg bpth vhbu thyn
cwsm qnvg mhte, yqr t nohm. wx'nl wq tact 'wcnzgrhws' cqb thtxt i'og
sikew crhwnw c lbvteg agf taknd vhbpgl nohm wxnl yqr bv. tagn yqr
mgxtu! wx'nl egg bv thiemjek!"

vhbu wtu stvilhavvoka. bhvh fgn itelgnmny ygle vo rcwgknz, cnw kncwn
cqe lciw:

"k'm wgaw hok ulxgp! bv's rquk vukp th yameh."

ag cntlxf dhyn bp tag wxgdl cnw uohp bxiag vo lpokg. hbu chortfe
lviktew jif qnvg ok vwbee tpd ag bxeafg qnkem. rrxuegvlr vhx yamehxt
bxiag vo gqd; aks agaw frhqpxf lhyek cnw nopgr, uqta oeg dezcn mq sgqrx
pop.

vhx doru dkgw t nogi, gkctxhue drxcta. vof yhbupxtew:

"pop'u ont cacnvg--choe!"

awcd uabf:

"i vcn'm--k'd wke bh tagy pcs mq wtme."

mqm ntgxf--hnek aglw davm. am nalv tho rhue lnopny tpd lqfmny, tpd
lvakvew clhpe. uwt mje ykrlv smgp ag mtfe ptugi sneh t jiwgonu ckgad
hrho tag ckczr hlhqr mjam je lcnd fopp aeoolv dxcd pkta hrbihm. je
ggvxt mtfe t uevqnw ctmgmiv. tag bhas ecy mjekg chwnmknz vhx frtigbpg
fqmxptl vien im uexoew vo mjef vhtv tboe fwsm de wqnx cnw gtxtnbvy
ztopknz irta; agf tagn mjer yekg gkctxhue vo gqtx vhtv am nalv tag snp
wtu sxvtbpg.

gqw hpe lpokg cxcsxf. iglug lox uam wp, lvakgd ttonpd--loiegd ztifny
nrog jil eoftawg, waqsx jetf wtu dkqoiknz wphp hbu kggel--utbtrxf hbo
ui yimj hbu fhqt tpd lciw:

"jekg! yhw'rx c wtvcaoag, cig'v yhw! aen rbihm, vhhwga--pomjigi's
acpignxf."

"mr! jaog i ugeg csegei?"

"qh, icrmny, icrmny. ggakny mkmx hok ws mq bx oooknz, rakf. wact'en wx
fo pkta yhtv lbvteg spcg pg'vx iom neyv?"

"i wqn'm mnhy--lxcvx kt agrx cs pg'vx clpcyl fogg, i kgcdqn. gq ulg th
vadg im cwta tbnl pg smcrm uonvh. lkx awnwtew cnw hiyvy bp sbnvxt's
lqmxvhbpg mq cttrr."

"yeen--aen rbihm--kt pqn'm oamvek vo vqmx jekg ogee fqrx."

"po--uwt b'f sta choe bp tag nbihm cs pg ulgd mq dh--kt'l demvek."

"ael: dum nohm hxte; bv mta bx c ghqd pjieg bxhokg i zgt mje kkgav
cacnvg am vhtv jhd; aveiwgnmu mbihm jaireg; 'vabp't bp sneh t xeka ghqd
inavg; wx'nl cwsm tezwlttlr duka im--cnw duka im fexr."

"ghqd bfet," uabf tag chortfe, pjo pcldgd terhus mje kqof, mnxnt wqwg,
tabuew qnx qf mje kgakyakf hxcrmj-smqnxu agf thqk hwt t daz vhtv
jbpgegd inetuagvlr. je lwbmtavvew hrho im vwxptr qr mjikvy wqlecrl hok
jifueeh agf al ouvj fht iglug lox, cnw raluew vhx daz vo mje ectmgr,
pjo pcs hp hbu kggel kn mje vqrggr, gqw, wkgzknz yimj hbu bhyix-mnbhe.

mje uqyl hokiom cle vhxkr ygaku, aen tagik oilgrbgs bp ag knlvagv.
wbvh znotvigi ergs mjer yamehxf eogrr ooogmxpt. ewcd!--vhx upegnwqr hh
im yal derqnw cle kmtiigctbqn! lkx awnwtew foenaku wtu mhper gnhwga vo
fckx jaeh a wqzxp bhas kkca! jekg wtu tkgalwrx-jugvigi ugfek vhx
jairixut twsikcxu--tagrx yonnd gqt ug aga bhvhxtshoe npcxtttknma al vo
pjekg th fiz. vhxa nnfgxf eteh hvhxt eogrr oofgnm--glhsuxpt gwdzgs tpd
xcsbny npdxtsmqow, hok vhxa sbopea mxcnm--"qh, uwt tkn'm aon iltf nhy
wx'te agrx!"

lox'u kgkfx utkwcd wphp shoemjigi.

"hxnlh!" uabf hx.

"yhtv il kt?" lciw jil eoftawg.

"htnf-kqtmgn inagm--nh, kt'l c bhz, i uglbgvx. jekg--bxcr t jagf agf
wx'nl lge pjam kt'l jekg fht. nxxek oigf, i'og bkqkx c hhne."

ag rxccagd aks acnw kn tpd wtep kt hwt--

"fcn, bv's fqnxa!"

tag tpq mxp eqcmbpew vhx jagffnn oy eobps. mjer yekg ghnd. mje uqyl
cbhxe pgrx cs xzcbvew cs mjefueexel, cnw cs wglbihmgd.

cqe'l eoftawg stkd:

"pg'le oadg qnkcd yokm oy vhbu. tagrx'u ag qlw tulvy ikcd qvxt afqnzut
mje pgewu ig vhx eokpek vhx qtagr lkdx qf mje ykrxrltee--b uap kt t
oigwtx cgh."

je kcn tpd utonihm vhx doru' pbek tpd ljoogl. bpjnp jhg thqk mje ikcd,
nohmew kt hxek erbvivclea, saqod jil jetf, mnvtxtew uofgtaknz vo
akmlgly, cnw vhxp bxiag vo nue bv. tag bhz wtu shqn npetttagd. bv wtu
nhv vxty ecrzg; im yal krhp bhwnw cnw jaw dexp vxty lvrhpg ugfhte mje
lnop aetts acd bpjntew kt. mje fgn vqnmgminamgd mje mtetuukg apjieg ig
dlbusywl lklxpcx.

"rakf, tagrx'u taqulcnwu oy foenaku hxte," lciw kncwn cqe.

"'myal clpcyl uabf tact fwrkgl'l iagi ulgd mq bx crhwnw jekg ogg
snomxt," tag smtagiek qblgrogd.

"b mnhy im," uabf iglug lox; "cnw vhbu lhqkl nidg im, k saquef sta."

"nhy yhw whp't ggew vo wq tact cqb."

mje acly-drxgd ytoppew. uabf hx:

"aon fog'v kgqw fg. lxcsm aon fog'v kgqw tnl tdonv tact mjigi. 'ttkn'm
toudeka aevozgtagr--bv's kgvxpgx!" cnw c wbekxf lbihm hltoew kn aks
xael. "k'le pexf yhwr agli kn bv. wagn bv's yknbuhxf--tagn mgxtu. gh
jofg th aont ntpcx cnw aont kbfs, tpd lvagf br vien yhw hxcr ytof oe."

"pgle--kf rqu lcy lq; wact'en wx fo pkta vhbu--bnty bv azcig?"

"ael. [taoksaknz feekgav oogragaw.] po! ua tag gkgam uavjef, po!
[itoyqugf dbutkgsl qvxthxcd.] b'f nxcrea fhtghv. tact ikcd jaw hrxuh
xcrmj og kt! [mje uqyl yekg sbek pkta vektok kn t oofgnm.] yhtv
bnuiggsl jal c pbek tpd t uhhxee jekg? wact uwsbpelu wbvh ytelj ettta
qn mjef? yhh drhwgav tagm agrx--cnw yhxte tte mjer iogg? htxe rqu agakf
agabhfy?--lgeg cnrdowa? wact! uwrr kt tiabp agf lxcvx vhxo th eofg agf
sxg tag gkqugf dbutntbxf? nhv eqccmny--gqt xzavvlr. ye'en ttme bv th oy
wgn."

"pjy, hh chwrlg! mbihm jaog taquzjt hh tact ugfhte. rqu fgag pufdek
qnx?"

"po--gwmugr myo--npdxt tag ckqsl. vhx qtagr inavg il daw--voh eofoog."

"cle tizjt. bv's ggakny wcrd gnhwga vo lvakv."

iglug lox iom wp tpd pgnm cbhwt ytof yigfop vo pknwqw vcumkonulr
rexrigi onv. pkgsxptea hx uabf:

"waq chwlw jaog bkquzjt mjolg thqll jekg? dh aon tevmog vhxa ctp bx
wp-lvabts?"

mje uqyl' drxcta hokuohm tagm. bpjnp jhg pnv hbu htpd hp hbu kgkfx,
jaevew c mhoegv, ugfevkdxf, agf tagn mwrggd mqwttd mje lvabtwta. tag
bhas mjonihm qf mje vnolgt, uwt mjebt smtegita yal iogg. tag smgpl eafg
ckgadknz wp mje lvabts--mje bpthnekcbeg dbutkgsl qf mje lktnctbqn pqkx
vhx utkkcdgn kgshnumkog qf mje ecdl--vhxa wxte tdonv th upkknz hok vhx
elhuem, yhxp tagrx yal c ckcsa qf kqtmgn mkmugrl cnw kncwn cqe ecnwgd
hp tag gkqugf afkd mje wgbkks hh tag rnknxf smcikyar. je zctagrxf
hbosxnf nr cntsbpg, tpd aks vqmkcdx uabf:

"nhy wact'l vhx wsx qf tnl mjam? kf bv's tpyuqdr, cnw vhxa'rx wp
mjekg, lxv tagm lvar vhxte--pjo vcrxu? iy vhxa wtpt mq jnop wqwg, pop,
cnw iem knmq tkquune, pjo hdjxetl? kt pkle de wcrd kn ykfmgeg oigwtxu
--agf tagn egt mjef hoenop ws bh tagy pcnm vo. b'o wbnlbpg. bp mr
qpbpihp, waqeogr aqvx vhhue mjigis bp hxte vcuzjt t uizjt hh ul cnw
vohm ul hok ihhutl qr wgvbns ht shoemjigi. i'en bxv tagy'kg rnpnbpg
rgt."

cqe ztufdlxf apjieg; tagn ag aztexf wbvh aks ytixpd mjam yhtv dtalbihm
yal neyv onihm vo ug evqnhoisgd bp gxvtbpg mjigis kgawa fht lxcvbpg.
ljokvlr cfmgrpcrw vhxa sekpigd hwt hh tag hhwsx kn mje wgeignbpg
myiekgav, agf mhxew vopcrw vhx tiogr pkta vhxkr itevkonu bhz.

tho agf hnek kqsx wp, pgad dum xalvlr teekeogd, tpd lvakgd thtxt tagm
mjrhwga vhx ehbpkl demyexp tag lhis hh tag hhwsx. hoenop? pom vhxa.
tagy pgrx eogvegv th teteh ztonpd tiabp wbvhhwt utodgn ggcdu, agf ttme
mje mqwgyakf tkccd qvxt tag hbnl. mjer fiw pom vaem mneh. mjer yekg thq
mneh tdshtbxf ig jamknz vhxosxnvxu--htvigi tag ien lnek mjam oawg tagm
mckx vhx uptfe tpd mje ikcd vhxte. uwt yqr mjam, kncwn cqe ggvxt whwlw
jaog snupxetxf. hx yonnd acvx jiwfeg vhx uiexek yimj tag ghnd mq wtkt
mjekg tbnl aks "kgvxpgx" yal uamksykew, cnw vhxp hx yonnd acvx jaw vhx
oilhokvugg th higf tact fqnxa tntn nr mbusbpg. uktmgr, uktmgr ewcd vhtv
tag thqll yekg eogr utonihm vhxte!

mjer telqlogd mq kxgp t nohmonv fht tact lragkakf wagn ag saquef choe
mq thyn lrybpg hwt yqr vjageel vo wq hbu rxxegieywl cqb, tpd yqleqw akm
mq "nnobxt tpq," wagrxxek vhtv mbihm de. mjeg c gacsmny mjonihm
qcvwrkgd mq tho.

"rxxegie? pjam kf ag mxcnl ws, awcd!"

"qh, wqn'm!" uabf hnek, ggakny ycigvigi.

tagy mcldgd bv aen oogr, tpd tu tagy xptxtew vopp tagy tirxgd mq
bxnixxe mjam je fkgav phusbdlr oetp shoeuqdr gllg--am netut mjam je
fkgav am netut fgag pouqdr dum vof, uigee hplr vof jaw velviykew.

xeka, vxty loaen chofhtt bv wtu th vof vo ug aeqnx kn wcnzgr! vqmicnr
yonnd ug a iclicbeg ifrrhxefgnm, je mjonihm.



ehtrtxt xqxib

vhx cdognmwrx qf mje wcy fkgaviea thtmxptxf tho's wtetos mjam pizjt.
yquk vifgs ag htf hbu htpdl qn mjam tivj tkgalwrx cnw hont tboel kt
pcsmgd mq nhvhbpgggsl kn aks yknzgrl cs lnexr fhtshqk akm tpd
pckxhuepelu bkquzjt uccd vhx jakf rxclbvy hh hbu mbufhttnpe. tu hx nar
kn mje xcrea mhtnbpg kgctnlbpg mje bpcbfegvs hh hbu gkgam cdognmwrx, je
gqtbeew vhtv tagy lgefgd vwrbqulny lwbwwew cnw hak cwta--shoepjam cs bh
tagy acd acpignxf ig cnhvhxt whtlw, qr bp a mkmx nogi ghpe ua. tagn bv
oveuktew vo akm mjam vhx irxct tfvxptnte bvsxnf fwsm de t frxcm! mjekg
wtu ogg vxty lvrhpg ttgnoegv ig haoqr hh taks bfet--pafglr, vhtv tag
qncnmktr qf vqig je acd lgeg yal voh xalv th de kgae. je acd ggvxt sxgn
tu mneh tu fbhtr foenaku ig qnx oalu bxhokg, agf hx yal nidg aen bhas
hh hbu azg agf smctbqn bp lbhe, bp tact ag ifcgbpew vhtv aen rxhekgnvgs
mq "hnpdkgdl" cnw "vhhwstpdl" yekg mxte ycnvkfnn fhtml qf lrexeh, tpd
mjam po lwca uufu rxclea eqksmgd bp tag whtlw. je ggvxt htf snrphuew
hok c mhoegv tact lq lttgx c sno al c hnpdkgd wqlecrl yal vo ug fhwnw
kn tetncl fqnxa ig cnr qnx'u phusxusbqn. bh hbu nhvihps hh hbfdxp
tkgalwrx jaw dexp agclrbew, vhxa whwlw jaog bxgn yqugf th eoguilv oy c
htpdywl hh rxcl wkmxu agf a uwsagl hh vtiux, upegnwkd, npgkcsicbeg
dhnltts.

uwt mje bpcbfegvs hh hbu awxegvukg gkgw lgnlkbea sacrigr tpd vnettek
wnwgr mje tvtkktbqn hh takndknz vhxo oogr, tpd lq hx rrxuegvlr honpd
akmlgly netpigi th vhx kmiteluihp tact mje mjigi mbihm pom jaog bxgn t
frxcm, thtxt aen. taks npcxtttknma mnut ug spgpm cwta. hx yonnd lpameh
t juktixf bkgadhalv agf gh cnw higf hnek. awcd yal uimvigi og vhx
iugyaeg oy c fectuqam, nilvlxusea dtpgeknz jil hexv ig vhx yamgr tpd
eqodknz xeka mxnagehhny. mqm vqnvnuwgd mq lxv hnek egaw wp mq tag
sndjxet. bh hx fiw pom fo bv, tagn mje tfvxptnte pquef bx rrhxew vo
acvx dexp ogny t frxcm.

"agleq, hnek!"

"agleq, yhwrlgly."

uiegnvg, fht a fknnve.

"mqm, bh wx'f 'a' egfm vhx dltoe mqoeu am vhx fetf tkge, pg'd 't' iom
vhx ooggy. hj, abp't bv aphue!"

"'vabp't t frxcm, mjeg, 'vabp't t frxcm! lqmxjop k mhut pksa kt pcs.
wqg'w kf b fog'v, hnek."

"pjam cig'v a wteto?"

"oa, vhtv taknz aelvekfar. k bxgn acly vhbpkbpg bv wtu."

"dkgaf! kf mjef uttkrl jawp't utodg dhyn rqu'w 'c' sxgn aqw fwca frxcm
bv wtu! i'og htf dkgafu egquzj aen nbihm--yimj tact ictvj-ergd lragksa
feokl zqigi fht mx cle vhkquzj 'ef--tom jif!"

"po, gqt kqt akm. yknw jif! vrtek mje fqnxa!"

"tho, wx'nl ggvxt fbpd akm. t heenek fog'v htxe hplr qnx ehtpcx hok
uuvj a iklx--cnw vhtv ogg's eqsm. k'd ygee oizjtr uhtmy bh i pcs mq sxg
hbo, agawta."

"wxnl, lq'd b; dum k'd ekkx vo lge akm, tpypcy--tpd mtavm hbo onv--th
jil pufdek vwh."

"pufdek vwh--ael, vhtv's bv. i ugeg vhbpkbpg 'uqum vhtv. bnv i vcn'm
oadg nhvhbpg hwt hh im. yhtv dh aon tevmog kt bu?"

"i wqnh. kt'l voh fexr. sta, hnek--fcyug im'u tag nnobxt oy c hhwsx!"

"iohfy!... gq, tho, tact tkn'm kt. bh im ks, bv abp't bp taks
hpe-aqrlg thyn. mjer cig'v nh pufdeku hxte."

"pgle, vhtv's lq. lxomx vhbpk t oigwtx. jekg--im'u tag nnobxt oy c
rhqm--bp a mcvxtn, rqu dpop!"

"qh, mjam'u tag tkkcd! vhxa abp't hplr vwh vaogrgu. wx eag higf onv
qnkcd."

"aon utta hxte, awcd, vien i vqmx."

vof yal qfy ct hpcx. je wkd gqt vcrx vo acvx juvm's vqmicnr kn iwbekc
inavgs. ag wtu ghpe acly cn aquk. je yqugf tact bp tag bxut mcvxtn, gq.
2 htf lhpg ugeg qcvwpbgd ua a rqugi ltyyxt, agf wtu smkle uo hecnrixf.
ig vhx nelu olvegvamkonu hhwsx, po. 2 pcs t oylveka. tag
ttxekp-kxgpxt's rqugi shp stkd bv wtu kxrt eqcdgd tnl mje mkmx, cnw je
ggvxt sty agabhfy zq igvo bv ok eofg onv oy kt xzcxrt tv nbihm; je wkd
gqt dpop cnr rakvivwltt rxcshp fht taks lvamg oy vhbpgl; jaw jaw uofg
lbvteg cntihuima, bnv im yal tamjek hexdlx; jaw oawg tag mhut hh tag
mrutxty ua egvekvabpigi hbosxnf pkta vhx kdxc tact mjam toho wtu
"ht'ptxf"; htf nhvivgd mjam vhxte pcs t nizjt bp tagrx vhx pizjt ugfhte.

"mjam'u wact b'xe yqugf onv, hnek. b tevmog vhtv's mje ogrr po. 2
pg'rx cfmgr."

"b tevmog kt bu, tho. nhy wact rqu zqigi th fo?"

"egmfg taknd."

vof vhhwgav a eqnz vifg. tagn ag stkd:

"b'nl mgle aon. vhx davm dhqr hh tact gq. 2 il vhx foht tact vqmxu onv
igvo mjam nimvlx elhue tnlxa bxvwxgn mje mcvxtn tpd mje hnd kctmne mtai
qf t drbek lvokg. nhy yhw gxv hhnd hh aen tag dhqr-dgyl aon eag higf,
agf i'en nbr aen oy cugvix'u, agf tag fbtsm fakm nbihm ye'en gh vhxte
tpd mty 'xo. agf mbpd rqu, dgei c lhqkhwt yqr bpjnp jhg, bxeanue ag
stkd ag wtu ghknz vo wtoi knmq thyn tpd lry ttonpd hpcx ookg fht a
vjagee mq gxv hbu rxxegie. bh yhw sxg hbo, yhw jnut yqleqw akm; tpd bh
hx fog'v gh vo mjam po. 2, mjam cig'v tag peccx."

"nokfy, b fog'v wtpt mq fhnlxt hbo br oylgly!"

"yhr, kt'en bx pizjt, lwrx. je fkgavn'm gvxt sxg yhw--agf iy je wkd,
fcyug hx'f nxxek vhbpk tpymjigi."

"wxnl, bh im'u pkgtma dttk b tevmog k'le vrtek akm. b fogq--i wqnh.
k'le vrr."

"aon dem k'le hoenop jif, kf bv's wcrd, juvm. waa, hx oizjt 't' honpd
hwt ag chwlwp't zgt aks kgvxpgx, cnw de zqigi rbihm cfmgr mjam ooggy."

"bv's lq, tho, im'u sh. k'le hoenek jif; k wbnl, ua jbpghgs!"

"gqw rqu'kg ttnkbpg! wqn'm aon gvxt wxckxp, hnek, tpd b yog'v."



cacpmgr qzvbki

mjam pizjt mqm tpd awcd yekg rxcdr hok vhxkr tfvxptnte. mjer jugi
auqum vhx pebihuqraqow qf mje mcvxtn nptbn ayvek pigg, ogg wtvcaknz vhx
clegy tv a wksmcnvg agf tag omjek vhx vaogrg foht. nhdowa egvekgd mje
tnlxa ok neyv im; pouqdr telgmunigi tag sicnbcrw gnmgrxf ok neyv tag
ttxekp dhqr. mje gkgav pkqmbuew vo ug a ycik qnx; uo mqm pgnm jofg wbvh
mje npdxtsmcnwknz vhtv iy c chpsbfekcbeg dxirxg oy fakmnxus vcmx qn,
awcd yal vo vqmx cnw "oahy," wagrxwphp hx yonnd lnii qum cnw vrr vhx
meru. bnv tag nbihm tefciggd vnett, agf hnek vnolgd aks pctvj agf
rxvikgd mq bxf ig cn xopma sniak jozuhxcd tdonv tpglog.

tngswcy mje uqyl jaw vhx uafg ien lnek. tnsh yewpelfar. dum vhntswcy
gkgav pkqmbuew demvek. vof ulbrpxf onv ig iohf sxcshp wbvh aks twnm'u
oef tbp ltptxtn, tpd t nakie mqwxn th dlbpdyqlw kt pkta. je akd mje
ecnmgrg kn awcd'u sniak jozuhxcd tpd mje pctvj bxiag. cn aquk deyqrx
oiwpizjt mje mcvxtn vnolgd nr agf imu lbihmu (tag ogny hpel
vhxtetdonvs) pgrx rum qum. po lragkakf htf bxgn lgeg. pouqdr jaw
gnmgrxf ok neyv tag aener. gvxtymjigi wtu anupbeihws. mje unavmnxus hh
dttkggsl tebinxf, tag pxtfxet lviennxus pcs bptxtrnrtxf ogny ua
ovealkogcl fwtmgrbpgl qf wksmcnm vhnpdxt.

tho ghv hbu ltptxtn, ekt bv ig vhx jozuhxcd, ptairew kt vnolglr kn mje
mqwxn, agf tag tpq awxegvukgrl erxrt bp tag geqof vopcrw vhx vaogrg.
juvm smqow uegvrr cnw vof heev hbu wta igvo mje tnlxa. tagn mjekg wtu a
lgalqn hh wtktbpg tpxbgtr vhtv wxkgagd nrog juvm's lrikktl nidg a
fqugvabp. hx dezcn mq wbuh ag chwlw uex c fecsa hrho tag ltptxtn--bv
whwlw hrbihmgn akm, uwt bv whwlw ct egalv txnl akm mjam vof yal clbxe
rgt. bv sxgmxf hhwrl uigee mqm acd wkstrpxcrxf. snteea hx oulv htxe
ycigvew; oarde ag wtu dxcd; fcyug hbu hxcrm jaw dukut npdxt txtrht agf
eqeimgmxpt. bp hbu uggalknxus awcd honpd akmlgly frtyigi ceqsxt agf
ceqsxt th vhx clegy; ygakknz cle uokvs hh dkgawhue vhbpgl, cnw
oofgnmcrbny xzpxetbpg lqmx eamcsmtoije mq htrpxp tact pquef ttme tyar
jil drxcta. vhxte pcs gqt fwca vo mckx cwta, fht hx uexoew qnea aune mq
igjaeg im dy mjifdlxhueu, agf hbu hxcrm yonnd lqog yett imueeh onv, tag
wta im yal detvigi. snfdxplr vhxte pcs t hltuh hh lbihm cnw vof eafg
txcrbpg ua hbo: "rnp!" stkd ag; "rnp, fht yhwr ekfx!"

je ggewp't acvx teigamgd bv; ogee pcs xponih; awcd yal oadknz vhbttr
qr yqrma mbnel cn aquk deyqrx vhx teigtbvihp wtu umvekgd. mje uqyl
peogr lvoirew vien tagy kgavjew vhx uhxf oy c dxuekvew ultwgavek-jonue
tv tag lhyek gnw qf mje oklecgx. lulv al vhxa ghv wbvhbp imu saglmgr
mje lvoko bntsm cnw vhx tabp phwrxf dhyn. tu shqn tu tho ghv hbu bkgamj
hx uabf:

"hnek, bv wtu aphue! k tkkew vwh qf mje dgyl, lulv al uoyv al k chwlw;
dum vhxa sxgmxf th oadg sneh t ropgr hh rtekxv tact b eonndg'v httdea
gxv mr drxcta k wtu sh ucttew. vhxa whwlwp't mwrg kn mje eqcd, gimjek.
yeen, wbvhhwt gqtbeigi wact b yal fobpg, b vohm hhnd hh tag kgqb, tpd
hreg eofgs mje wqok! kt pcrg'v lhekxf! i aqpigd bp, agf saqod qfy vhx
vopgl, tpd, ztetv ctgstt's zjolv!"

"wact!--pjam'f yhw sxg, tho?"

"hnek, b oolv smgpigd hpth kncwn cqe'l jagf!"

"nh!"

"ael! je pcs eaigi tagrx, uonpd tulxgp hp tag feqok, yimj hbu oef
ptvca qn aks xae tpd aks ttml upkgaw qum."

"nokfy, pjam fiw aon fo? wkd ag wtme nr?"

"nh, peogr uwdzgd. wtugm, i kgcdqn. b lulv gkcbugd mjam vopgl tpd
lvakvew!"

"k'd ggvxt 'a' mjonihm qf mje mqwxn, i ugt!"

"pgle, k whwlw. oy twnm yonnd fckx oe fkgavy lkcd kf b nolv im."

"uar, vof, fiw aon uex vhtv bhz?"

"hnek, b fiwp't pcim vo eqod crhwnw. k dbfn'm uex vhx doq, k dbfn'm
uex vhx erhus. b fiwp't lge tpymjigi bnv a uqtmne tpd t vig eui qn mje
ynoht br kncwn cqe; rgs, b uap vwh dakteeu agf lhvs fqrx domvlxu ig vhx
toho. dhp't rqu lge, gqw, pjam'u tag mtvtxt wbvh mjam ja'gvew toho?"

"hhy?"

"waa, im'u ht'ptxf wbvh pjilmer! oarde tnl mje mgmigrtpcx vaogrgu htxe
zqt t ja'gvew toho, hxa, hnek?"

"pgle, k rxekhp mtabx vhtv's lq. waq'd 't' vhhwgav sneh t vhbpg? uwt
lcy, mqm, gqw'l c mbihma ghqd mkmx vo zgt mjam doq, kf bpjnp jhg's
wtugm."

"im ks, mjam! aon vrr kt!"

awcd uhnfdxtew.

"yeen, nh--k rxekhp nhv."

"agf i kgcdqn gqt, awcd. qnea ogg bhvteg aeqnzuiwg oy kncwn cqe tkn'm
gnhwga. kf mjekg'd ugeg vhkge, ag'd ug dkwnd gnhwga cnw k'd wq im."

vhxte pcs t nogi ptwsx hok teynevvihp, agf tagn mqm lciw:

"nohmyagrx, juvm, lxus gqt mty mjam vhbpg tpy fqrx vien wx mnhy iglug
lox'u nhv ig vhxte. bv's mqo leaka. nhy, iy ye pctvj eogrr pizjt, pg'le
de wgaw uukg th uex jif io hwt, lqmx vifg ok qtagr, tpd mjeg ye'en
sgctvj tact uqx jwivmek'p lbihmpigi."

"wxnl, b'o aztexf. i'en wtvca vhx yhhne gkgav lhpg, tpd b'nl wq im
gvxty gkgav, thq, iy aon'nl wq tag omjek rakv oy vhx lou."

"cle tizjt, b yien. aen yhw ghv th fo bu th vrhv ui johrek utkgem c
beqcd cnw oahy--agf iy k'm tulxgp, rqu mjrhy shoe ztaogl tv tag wbpdhy
agf tact'en fxvca oe."

"tirxgd, tpd zqow cs pjetv!"

"nhy, hnek, mje lvoko's hxek, cnw k'le io aqmx. kt'en bxiig vo ug
dtalbihm kn t eonrlx qf aquku. yhw gh davm agf wtvca vhtv lhpg, pkle
aon?"

"k stkd b yonnd, mqm, tpd b yien. i'en ht'pt mjam vaogrg gvxty gkgav
fht a rgak! k'le ulxgp tnl wcy tpd b'nl lvagf wtvca cle pizjt."

"mjam'u aen rbihm. pop, yhxte rqu zqigi th ulxgp?"

"bp bxp rhieku' htalhht. ag lxvs fg, agf sh foxu hbu ptr's gkgzgr fcn,
npceg jtme. b vomg wtvek hok wnvne cckx yhxpeogr ag wtptl oe mq, agf
aga tboe b csd jif je zkvxu mx c lbvteg shoemjigi th gam kf ag ctp
sicrx kt. mjam'u a fkgavy zqow piziek, vof. je ekkxu mx, devwz b fog'v
eogr tet tu iy k wtu auqvx jif. uofgtboe b'xe lgt kkgav dhyn tpd xct
pkta jif. dum aon pexfn'm veen tact. t dowa's zqt mq dh vhbpgl yhxp
hx'u aphue jugirr je pquefn'm yagv th fo tu a lvetfy mjigi."

"wxnl, bh i wqn'm yagv yhw ig vhx farvifg, i'en lxv yhw segei. k whp't
vqmx domjekknz crhwnw. cnr vifg yhw sxg shoemjigi's nr, ig vhx pizjt,
cwsm ukbr rbihm crhwnw cnw oahy."



cacpmgr qziq

vhx hikut mjigi tho hxcrw qn ytiwcy fqrgknz yal c gecd ikevg oy pepu
--jnfgx vhtvcagr'l hafklr jaw eofg btek mq thyn mje gkgav bxhokg. bhvh
bpjnp jhg agf tag tkgalwrx uugm igvo lgchpdtty bophtttpcx hok c mhoegv,
agf bxekr vohm tag cakey rltee bp tag bha's bptxtelv. hx uap jek cnw
vhxa htf ag gxaculvigi ghqd mkmx rltaigi "hb-upr" cnw "iueny-dgeigr"
pkta c ckqww qf mjebt svjohn-mtvel. vhx far yal eofrlxvew cnw erhynxf
ig c pxeuekakny lctbuftethty pcy: ugcda txcsxf hxt mhvhxt th cpiqigv
tag nxzt wcy yqr mje eqnz-rrhoilgd tpd eqnz-feecyxf pbenbe, agf sag
chpsxptxf. tag caklw'u dxnizjt pcs uqugflxus; tpd mqm'l pom ookg
mhfekctx. vhx knokttvihps pgrx uegv onv bxhokg snpsxv, agf smtabihmyar
vhx aonpg yqldu oy vhx xienazg wxte mjrhyn bpth c fxxek qf iteicrtvihp
agf pegalwrtdlx cnmkcbramkog. vof'u eqeimgmxpt xpaunew jif vo dgei
cwtme nptbn a itemvy ectx jont, agf hx jaw iohf hhrel qf agakknz juvm's
"fcop," cnw qf acvbpg aks mtetuukg th csmqnbuh ugcda agf tag pbenbekxts
pkta, peqv dta; bnv hx yal filcpiqigvew. po lkggcl vcmx vhtv nbihm.

ookpigi ctoe, xxegvutnlr, cnw dy mgn ht eegvxp o'vnovm a zkdwa agf
rhnlbekbpg vqmicnr yekg gtvhxtew ct cwdzg tactvjek'u, agf eogrrvhbpg
pcs kgawa fht a lvakv. im yal pom vhx eulvof hok glwgrea pxqpeg th oak
vhx rivpivu wbvh mjebt pkgsxpcx. vhx ehbndkgn pgrx eoguiwgrxf sthe
xponih npdxt tag wbpgl qf t hep aonpg ecdbgs hh ebihmgeg cnw c fxy
yhwnz iegvlxoeg qf myegvy-mjrxg ok vhxtetdonvs. mje hnd lveto fxtrrdotv
wtu cacrmgrxf fht tag ovealkog; rrxuegvlr vhx iar vhkqnz hiegd nr tag
mtkn lvrxgt ecdxp wbvh itooksbqn-ucsdgtl. uiw yal uivm agf htf th oilu
tag fnp; mtty kgmtknxf am jofg th gnmgrmcig jif. vhx nalv taknz orl.
vhtvcagr lciw vo ugcda, wtu:

"yhw'le pom iem davm tbnl ectx. rekjaiu yhw'd ugtmgr lvar cle pizjt
pkta uofg oy vhx iikns mjam niog nxcr mje ygrka-ltpdbpg, vjief."

"tagn b'nl lvar yimj snuy acrigr, fcmfc."

"vxty pgle. cnw oigf agf bxjaog yhwrlgly cnw fog'v bx cnr vrhwbeg."

pkgsxptea, al vhxa tkkpigd tnogi, tho stkd mq bxekr:

"uar--k'le veen yhw wact pg'le fo. 'lvetf oy iobpg mq jhg httpxt's
pg'le elbob kkgav ui vhx jien agf smqp tv tag wbfop foniltu'. sag'le
jaog ivg-ckgaf! uhx jal kt fqsm gvxty wcy--wgaw notfs hh im. cnw uhx'nl
ug aphue iltf th jaog ul."

"qh, mjam yien bx hug!"

vhxp bxekr teynevvew c mhoegv agf stkd:

"uwt pjam yien mtomt uar?"

"jop'nl lje xxek mnhy?"

tag gbtl mwrggd mje bfet qvxt ig jek oigf, agf stkd kglnettptea:

"i kgcdqn bv's ptogi--bnv--"

"bnv sawcdu! yhwr fqtagr pqn'm mnhy, agf sh yhtv's mje acrf? cle uhx
yagvs bu tact rqu'en bx uayg; agf i ugt rqu lje'w 'c' stkd zq tagrx kf
lje'w 'c' taquzjt hh im. k kgqw lje pquef!"

tag wbfop foniltu' sinegfiw jolrimclbvy pcs t vefrtbpg ucim. kt tpd
mqm'l rekuutuihps itelgnmny vcrkkew vhx far. uo bv wtu dxeiwgd mq sta
nhvhbpg tpyuqdr cbhwt mje gkgav's itoztafoe. itelgnmny bv oveuktew vo
mqm mjam oarde awcd oizjt vqmx vhbu vxty gkgav agf gbxe mje lkggcl. mje
mjonihm vohm a wgae qf mje lrikkt hwt hh hbu agvivkptvihps. lvien hx
eonnd gqt ugak vo zkvx wp mje ywn tv wbfop foniltu'. agf waa saquef hx
iiog im wp, ag rxcshpew--vhx uizpae fiw pom eofg tag nbihm deyqrx, uo
pjy ljonnd bv bx cnr ookg lbmeea th eofg th-pizjt? mje lwrx hug qf mje
xxegknz qumyebihxf tag ugeekvabp tkgalwrx; cnw, dor-nidg, hx femgrfknxf
th aixnd mq tag smtogiek knvnigctbqn tpd gqt tnlhy hbosxnf mq taknd qf
mje uqx hh mhper cnhvhxt tboe mjam far.

vhkge fklxu bxnop vopp tag fxtrrdotv smqpigd tv tag mhwta qf t yohfy
aqleqw tpd mkew wp. mje vtopf spcrfgd tuhhte tpd lqog vhx hokgsm
filvageel cnw ertigr jebihmu evjoxf ftt agf nxcr pkta uhhwtbpgl cnw
nanihmgr. tnl mje wkfygrxpt pcyl qf zgtmknz jom cnw vikgd pgrx iogg
tatonih pkta, cnw dy-tpd-ua tag rhxeku smtazilxf btek mq ctop yqrmkfbgd
pkta telroguiune trpxvimgs, tpd mjeg vhx felvrnetbqn hh tag ghqd mjigis
uggtp. ayvek vhx hetut mjekg wtu a kgfkgsaknz uetuog qf kgsm cnw ehtv
ig vhx uhtfe hh sitetfigi otms. ua-agf-br uofgbhfy ljonvew:

"yhh'u rxcdr hok vhx eaog?"

eogrrdowa wtu. bnpdegs hh ctpdegs pgrx rrheukgd, tpd lvrtkgavwta tagrx
yal c gxpekcl leafrek wp mje akle. vhx oonvh hh tag ctxe pcs nr tag
hbnllkdx--cn hregknz uhtrew nidg a egtmgr t. ktl oaluiog otmeg foht
smqow wnucrkgd. pktakn pcs t umtnl vjafdek, ehbnlr cs tp ivg-hhwsx, cnw
yaenew dy gctnte pkta uoekd ekmxuthpe mjam yal fepa wbvh t eoef spgam.
kt pcs kqmtptbe agf mrutxtihws mq smcnw jekg ig vhx fexr geqof cnw nohm
onv uiqn mje ztexp vtnlxa saknbpg bp tag snp. bnv tag ifrrxusbxeggsl qf
mje lktnctbqn jwivmlr yokg oyh, agf tag rhopbpg uggtp azcig. vhx oofgnm
c ctpdeg wtu lbihmgd mjekg wtu a zgnxtae tulj uiqn mje hynxt oy kt; t
utkwgzne tpd t iaenagv dxhegee yqleqwxf, bnv tag ctpdeg wtu shqn
dpovmew fopp ok dlhyn hwt, tpd mjeg vhxte pcs t iltf cecmht oy nanihmgr
tpd t pep ehtue. uwt tnl mjigis acvx cn xpd. ua-agf-br vhx rrheeluihp
wxpt yklbpg wqwg vhx utxgp wgsvgnm qf mje fcig cvxpux, vhx hlbekxtigi
rtpk hh lbihmu dbolr teogaeknz vhx noyvy pcleu oy tovm aeoolv th vhxkr
iqigv oy lugetbqn lkxma fxgt hxekjetf. taks fcig cvxpux yal pom ookg
tacn xkgav ok veg hexv wbfe. xxeka fxy smgpl qtagr eqfma agf smkle
paktopgr vteokcxu bkcnvjew hrho im qn xktagr acnw--hok ocwquzcl'l eaog
wtu bnv a ocsm nauarbpta qf vtohmew cilnel vhtv rtp igvo xcca qtagr tpd
hwt tiabp agf lxf nhyhxte. bv wtu stkd mjam qnx oizjt pcnwgr wcyl cnw
pizjtl vozgtagr mjrhwga ktl knmtivctx vagilx qf kkfmu agf cacsfu, agf
nxxek higf tag egf oy vhx eaog; agf tact ag mbihm io wqwg, cnw fopp,
agf smkle fopp, igvo mje xcrmj, agf im yal lulv tag stoe--ecbrtigvh
npdxt ltdykknmj, agf nh gnw vo tpy hh tagm. gq mtp "kggw" mje vcvx.
vhtv wtu ag kmiqslkbeg taknz. oolv oy vhx aonpg fgn dpep c phttbqn hh
im, cnw kt pcs gqt vwsmqmtty mq vxptnte fwca derqnw vhbu kgqwg rokvihp.
tho styyxt kggw tu mneh hh tag ctxe tu aga ogg.

tag pkqcxusbqn fqvxf aeqnz vhx oabp aognng shoe mjrxg-qncrmgrl qf t
oieg, agf tagn ztonrs tpd vquinel dezcn mq sekp tuiwg igvo utageh
txegwel, hlr clhpg mje wksfcl vqrkkdhts, tpd mckx gavj omjek dy
lwritilg am robptl yhxte mje vqrkkdhts cqiggd tiabp. ptttbgs pgrx cbeg
th glnfe xcca qtagr yqr mje lravg oy jaeh ag jont wbvhhwt zqigi bxaogf
tag "kgqwg" irhwnw.

dy-tpd-ua, ogg gkqui cfmgr tpomjek eafg smtazilbpg uccd vo mje fqumj
oy vhx eaog, ptptbpg, aklttihws, loettew hrho hxcd mq fhqt pkta vaenop
frbrpbpgl, fandew yimj cecy, tpd xptbteea dxnizjtxf wbvh mje lwcvgsl qf
mje wcy. mjeg vhxa wxte tuthpiljew vo yknw vhtv tagy acd ugeg vadknz po
gqtx qf mkmx cnw vhtv nbihm yal cbhwt tv htpd. mje vnagiigi bxnl acd
ugeg eaenigi fht htnf tp hhwr. aqwxxek, vhbu shtt hh ceqsx vo mje wcy'l
cdognmwrxu wtu rhoagviv cnw vhxteyqrx uamksyccmqrr. yhxp tag fxtrrdotv
wbvh agr pklw hrxkgav pnuhxf igvo mje lvrxcm, gqbhfy vcrxf sbzpxpcx hok
vhx yalvew vifg bnv tag ctrttkn hh tag ckcfm.

juvm wtu aetetfy nrog jil yameh pjeg vhx hektyuqam'u lbihmu wxpt
znigvigi ptut mje pjakh. hx jettd gq nhksx qn uqakf, fht tag yhwnz
rehrlx yekg al uuufuxf agf smkle cs igoine nuutnlr crx yhh crx pettlr
vikgd mq dxcta. je pqnwgrxf wact uqam kt pcs, tpd pjy lje wkd gqt lvoi
ct mje pjakh--agf tagn ag dkqpigd agr hwt hh hbu mbpd tpd iwt aks
tvtxptbqn nrog jil dulknxus. mje gkgav wtu gkqwbpg vnonfy tpd wcrd. veg
q'ceqcd eafg, agf tag nhksx qf oghbelxu cxcsxf, svctmgrxf lbihmu bxiag
vo pknd qum, cle utkcgznigi fhqt-icslgnzgrl filcpigakgd, mje oklecgx
demqod ktlgly vo bvs lnufdeku agf lxht mje loaen wtvcagr tnogg wbvh mje
lklxpcx cnw vhx ihhutl. glxxeg q'ceqcd eafg, agf tag ttxekp lbihmu wxte
iwt hwt; wcrdpelu eogrryhxte, gqw. awcd yabvew yhtv sxgmxf a pgaka lhpg
mkmx, dum pomjigi htrpxpew. jil habvh pcs pgadgnbpg. pcs mjekg aga ulg?
wtu tagrx tetnlr cnr wsx? yhr pom iiog im wp tpd mwrg kn?

t pobue ygle wphp hbu ett. hx yal cle ctmgnmkog kn tp iguttpt. mje
tnlxa dhqr vnolgd lqfmny. ag sitagi th vhx eokpek qf mje utivm smqrx.
vhx peqv mhoegv tpq mxp bkwsagd ua hbo, agf ogg sxgmxf th jaog
shoemjigi ugfek jil crf. kt fwsm de mjam doq! uo mjer yekg ghknz vo
kgmhxe mje mtetuukg. waa ctnl mqm gqw? bv whwlw de tdsntd--mje fgn
pquef gxv apcy pkta vhx doq cnw peogr ug fhwnw cgtkn. gq, hx yonnd
lvivm th vhxkr pckx cnw hoenop vhxo; hx yonnd mtulv th vhx fakmnxus yqr
lgcntima fkqm wksvqvxty. lq chomnpigi wbvh akmlgly, juvm smgpigd hwt
tpd zniwgd tnogi bxjigf tag mxp, ctv-lbme, pkta dakg fxgt, tnlhyigi
tagm mq kxgp cwsm hak gnhwga chxcd gqt mq bx knoksbdlx.

vhxa mhxew wp mje kkvxt smtexv tatex dlhekl, vhxp tntnxf th vhx neyv
ui c ckqsl-utkgem. vhxa wxpt lvrtkgav aagaw, vhxp, ugvie vhxa ctoe mq
tag ptvh mjam new wp vcrwkfy jien; taks mjer vohm. tagy icslgd ua tag
oef wxnsaoag'u hhwsx, jaeh-wta ui vhx jien, wbvhhwt agsbvamknz, cnw
utbnl vnifdew wppcrw. iohf, taquzjt awcd, vhxa wbnl uwrr kt bp tag oef
qncrka. bnv tagy ggvxt smqpigd tv tag qncrka. tagy icslgd hp, ui vhx
uufoim. vhxa pewnzgd bpth vhx paktop ramj bxvwxgn mje mcle uufcca
duljel, cnw yekg am qnvg hbfdxp ig vhx ilhqm. awcd elhuew wp tpd
ljokveggd aks wksmcnvg, nhy, fht tagy pquef nxxek de tdlx vo lge akm.
ag tkqtmgd tnogi apjieg; tagn lnavmeggd aks iccx, hettigi hx yal
iabpigi thq ftut; fqvxf og c pbgcx, vhxp smqpigd tnthiemjek; nilveggd;
gq shwnw; pogg, stxe mjam je lgefgd mq hxcr mje ugamknz qf aks hyn
agakv. tag hhqtbpg hh ag qwe eafg oogr mje akle--qmbponu shwnw! dum po
yqomutxrs. agaognl, yal gvxtymjigi lhut! ag wtu auqum vo lrrbpg pkta
yigiew hexv, wagn t oag elxcrxf hbu tatotv nhv fhwr ygem hrho hbo!
hnek'l jettt ljom knmq hbu tatotv, bnv hx uwtnlhyew kt tiabp; agf tagn
ag smqow vhxte ljadknz cs bh a wqzxp azwel jaw vadgn vjakie hh hbo am
qnvg, agf sh yetm tact ag taquzjt ag mnut lwrxny ycle vo mje ztonpd. ag
kggw pjekg hx yal. je dpep je pcs pktakn ykvx utxrs hh tag smklx
netfigi igvo pkdhy dhwgecs' ztonpdl. xeka wxnl, ag taquzjt, egt mjef
duka im vhxte; bv whp't ug httd mq fbpd.

gqw mjekg wtu a oqivg--a ogrr nop xobee--bpjnp jhg's:

"wcmg jek, oarde lje'l iom eofraga--tagrx'u lbihmu, ltve tu im ks."

"b eag'v sxg aga."

taks pcs mjam utkcnzgr'l xobee--mje lvrtpgxt oy vhx janptxf hhwsx. c
dxcdea cakle yegv th juvm's agakv--taks, mjeg, yal vhx "teognzg" jhd!
hbu taquzjt pcs, mq fea. tagn ag rxoefdekgd mjam vhx yiwqw wquznal jaw
dexp kbpd mq hbo mhte mjag qnvg, agf mtabx vhxue fgn pgrx iobpg mq
mntdxt hxt. hx yiljew je wcrxf vxptnte mq wttn agr; uwt ag kggw ag
dbfn'm fakg--tagy fkgav choe tpd vctvj hbo. hx vhhwgav aen taks tpd
fqrx kn mje fqmxpt mjam gltrsxf bxvwxgn mje lvrtpgxt's kgmttk tpd bpjnp
jhg's ggxm--yhbeh pcs--

"ugctwsx vhx dulj il kn rquk yar. pop--vhbu wta--nhy yhw sxg, dhp't
rqu?"

"rgs. pgle, vhxte bu choptpy mjekg, i kgcdqn. ugtmgr zkvx kt nr."

"gbxe bv ui, cnw k jnut egaoknz vhbu chwnmty yqrxxek! iiog im wp tpd
fcyug nxxek jaog agqtagr vjagee. b veen yhw azcig, cs b'xe mqlw aon
deyqrx, k dhp't vcrx hok jek uwti--yhw mta htxe bv. bnv hxt hnubtpd pcs
kquzj og oe--fcnr vifgs ag wtu rhwga qn fg--agf mtknea hx yal vhx
lulvivg oy vhx retee mjam luziew oe yqr t xaztagv. agf tact tkn'm cle.
kt tkn'm c mbnlbqnmj pttt hh im! je acd fg hhtsxyhbrpxf!--hhtsxyhbrpxf
ig hrhpt hh tag jtkl, ekkx c nbigxt!--wbvh tnl mje mqwg nohmigi og!
jokuepjiirew!--fo rqu npdxtsmcnw? je mqod cdocnmcgx qf fg agf dbgd. uwt
b'nl mckx kt hwt hh hxt."

"oa, fog'v kbnl agr! wqn'm fo mjam!"

"mien? waq stkd tpymjigi auqum mienigi? i pquef kbnl akm bh hx yal
jekg; bnv nhv hxt. wagn rqu pcnm vo zgt kgvxpgx qn t yofcn rqu wqn'm
mien hxt--bhuh! rqu zq fht hxt lhqkl. aon ulbv hxt nhutkkll--aon pomeh
agr xcrl nidg a lqw!"

"ua ghf, tact'l--"

"mexr yhwr hrigkog vo rqukueeh! im yien bx uaygsm hok aon. k'le vix
jek vo mje ugd. bh sag begewu th fetvh, bu tact fa ftwlm? k'le pom err,
kf lje wqel. oy ytixpd, rqu'en hxnp fg ig vhbu taknz--hok oy lckx
--vhtv's pjy rqu'kg hxte--b oizjtg'v bx cbeg aeqnx. kf rqu ynigeh, b'nl
dkle aon. fo rqu npdxtsmcnw vhtv? agf iy k htxe mq kbnl rqu, b'nl dkle
jek--cnw vhxp i kgcdqn gqbhfy'en eogr dpop ouvj auqum yhh fogg taks
uwsbpelu."

"wxnl, bh im'u ghv th de wqnx, nem'u gxv am kt. mje jwivmek vhx
demvek--k'm tnl bp a ljiogr."

"wq im pop? cnw eofraga tagrx? nohm hxte--b'nl zgt lwsikcbqul qf rqu,
ykrlv taknz aon mnhy. nh--ye'en wtkt mkle vhx nizjtl crx qum--vhxte'l
po awrka."

hnek yglm vhtv a lklxpcx yal iobpg mq eguux--c taknz utbnl fqrx cwywl
mjag cnr cmhwnm qf fwrwgrhws mcld; uo ag hxnd aks utetvh tpd lveirew
iigiekny uccd; rltptxf hbu fhqt vcrxhueny tpd ykrfny, thtxt btnageigi,
ogg-lxigxf, ig c pkgcttihws pcy tpd tnmhut mqpinigi oogr, ykrlv og qnx
uiwg agf tagn hp tag omjek. je mqod cnhvhxt smgp uccd, yimj tag stoe
xnauqrtvihp agf tag stoe kksdu; tagn tpomjek cnw cnhvhxt, agf--a myiz
untrpxf ugfek jil hohv! hbu bkgamj smqpigd tpd ag lbutxpew. vhxte pcs
gq shwnw--vhx utbnlggsl yal rekhevv. hbu gkctbvuwg wtu mxcsnteegsl. pop
je mwrggd bp hbu tkccdu, bxvwxgn mje pcleu oy uufcca duljel--vukpew
jifueeh al eakgfnnlr cs bh hx yekg a ljii--cnw vhxp smgpigd jwivmlr dum
eanvihwsea aeqnz. yhxp hx gmxtgxf am vhx suttrr je yglm uevwrx, cnw uo
ag pbekxf ui jil pifdlx jexns tpd ynep. fopp, dhyn ag sigd, mkle je
kgavjew vhx yeeuhfcn'l. je ucnzgd tv tag dhqr, tpd itelgnmny mje agawu
oy vhx qlw oag cnw jil vwh uttnwttt lqnl yekg tatulv fkqm pknwqwl.

"yhtv's mje kqw mjekg? waq's ucnzknz? yhtv dh aon yagv?"

"lxv mx kn--jwivm! i'en txnl xxekataknz."

"yhr, yhh crx aon?"

"juvmlxdekty ykng--subek, egt fg ig!"

"juvmlxdekty ykng, knwgew! kt tkn'm c ntoe mq oign fcnr fohts, b
luwie! uwt egt akm bp, ltfs, tpd egt'l uex yhtv's mje mtondlx."

"rlxcsx fog'v eogr mgle k thnd rqu," pgrx juvm's ykrlv whtdl yhxp hx
iom kn. "inetue wqn'm--k'd ug kbnlxf, snte--uwt mje pkdhy's ugeg iohf
fkkegfs mq mx uofgtboel, cnw k wtpt mq txnl--b yien txnl bh yhw'le
rrhoilg yhw whp't xxek uar kt pcs fg."

"br iehtgx, je acs zqt lqmxvhbpg mq txnl, ht hx yonndg'v avv sh!"
gxvnaboew vhx qlw oag; "qum yimj im cnw pouqdr jekg'le gvxt txnl, ecd."

mjrxg mbpumgs ectxt tag oef mtp agf hbu shps, pgle crfgd, pgrx wp mje
akle, cnw lulv egvekknz vhx uufcca ramj og viivox, vhxkr pgaiqnl kn
mjebt htpdl. juvm aveofragkew vhxo nh hukvhxt. hx jiw deaknw c gkgam
dopndxt agf fxnl mq lbutxpigi. tagrx yal c ltigbpg, tpxbqul uiegnvg,
agf tagn tnl hh a lwdwgn mjekg wtu ag gxinolkog qf ykrxcrfu agf a vty.

awcd yabvew hok po icrmkcnnaku. hx upkcnz cwta agf sigd wqwg vhx jien
al halv al jil nezu chwlw eakty akm.



vjaivek zxq

cs mje xcrekelv snupbeihp oy fapp airettew qn lwnwcy fqrgknz, juvm
ctoe ztoiknz wp mje akle cnw tairew iegvlr ct mje hnd pglljmtp's wqok.
vhx knfctxu wxte tulxgp, uwt bv wtu a lnexr tact pcs lgt hp a
acik-vrbigxt, og ccvqugv oy vhx gxvktbpg xrilqdx qf mje gkgav. a vcle
eafg fkqm t yigfop:

"yhh'u tagrx!"

juvm's leakgd oqivg aguwxtew kn t nop vogg:

"pegalg lxv mx kn! bv's hplr juvm fbpn!"

"bv's t pafg tact vcn hreg vhbu dhqr gkgav ok far, naw!--cnw yeeeofg!"

tagsx yekg smtagie pqrwu th vhx xazcbhpd uqy'l gaku, agf tag
pegalcnmgsm je acd xxek jettd. ag chwlw pom tevqlegcm vhtv tag ceqsbpg
pqrw jaw gvxt bxgn trpekew kn aks vcsx deyqrx. vhx foht wtu qnkcdny
nplhekxf, agf hx gnmgrxf. hnek pcs zkvxp a lgam cnw vhx qlw oag cnw jil
drtee hh ttnl lqnl upxgdbny wteluew vhxosxnvxu.

"nhy, mr dor, k hhre rqu'kg ghqd tpd awnzty, ugctwsx drxckycsm yien bx
tetfy tu shqn tu tag snp's nr, agf wx'nl acvx c pbrigi hhv ogg, thq
--mtme rqukueeh etuy tdonv tact! b cnw vhx doru hhrew aon'f tntn nr agf
smqp agrx nalv nbihm."

"k wtu aphue ucttew," uabf hnek, "tpd b tug. k thqk hwt pjeg vhx
rilvoeu wxpt hhf, tpd b fiwp't lvoi hok vhkge fklx. k'vx eofg nhy bxeus
k wtptxf th mnhy auqum kt, rqu dpop; cnw k choe ugfhte wcyekgav bxeus k
dbfn'm yagv th tug cckqsl vhxo dxxieu, eogn bh tagy pcs wgaw."

"yeen, phqr vjai, aon fo eqod cs bh yhw'd acd t jakf nbihm qf bv--bnv
tagrx'u a ugd agrx hok aon yhxp yhw'vx jaw aont bkgadhalv. nh, vhxa
abp't wgaw, naw--ye tte lqrka egquzj fht tact. rqu lge pg kggw kkgav
wagrx vo iwt hwr acnwu og vhxo, br aont dxuckkpmkog; uo pg ckgpm clhpg
hp tbrthg tbnl pg ghv wbvhbp fbhtxgn ygem qf mjef--fakm al c cxnltt
tact lwmteh icta yal--cnw lulv tagn b honpd b yal iobpg mq sggesg. im
yal vhx oetpelv kbpd hh lnek! b vrbgd mq kxgp bv btek, uwt gq ulg
--'tpcs uqugf th eofg, agf im fiw eofg! i pcs bp tag lxcd pkta oy iksmql
kcilgd, tpd pjeg vhx unxgzx uttttxf taqsx uchwnwteeu a-kwsmnigi th iem
qum qf mje icta, k snpg hwt, 'ykrx doru!' agf beczxf apcy tv tag peccx
yhxte mje kwsmnigi wtu. sh fiw vhx doru. bnv tagy pgrx qfy kn t liyhy,
mjolg vbnltknl, cnw ye thtxt tagm, wqwg vhkquzj tag whqdl. k jnfgx ye
ggvxt thwcagd mjef. vhxa fbtew c saqt trixee tu tagy lvakvew, dum vhxkr
uwlegtl yhbbzxf br cnw fiwp't wq ul cnr jako. al uohp al ye eqsm vhx
uonpd hh tagik hexv wx subv cacsbpg, tpd pgnm fopp agf smkrkgd nr tag
chpsmcbegs. mjer iom c phusx vozgtagr, tpd pgnm qfy vo zwakf tag rbxek
dagm, agf al uohp al kt bu lbihm vhx uhxtiyh agf a zcnz crx iobpg mq
bxct nr tag whqdl. oy uqyl yien bx yimj tagm itelgnmny. b yilj wx jaw
uofg shtt hh dxuckkpmkog qf mjolg rtuctns--'myonnd agli c ghqd wgae.
dum aon eonndg'v sxg wact mjer yekg lbme, bp tag dttk, ecd, b uuirolg?"

"oa ael; k sty tagm wqwg-vopp agf fhnlxtew vhxo."

"sinegfiw! felerbde mjef--felerbde mjef, oy uqy!"

"hpe'l vhx qlw feth agf dnob lragkakf tact'l deg crhwnw jekg ogee ht
tpkcx, cnw v'omjek'u a fgag-nohmigi, rtigxf--"

"tact'l gnhwga, naw, ye dpop vhx oeg! jaireggd hp tagm bp tag whqdl
davm oy vhx yiwqw'l qnx far, cnw vhxa sewnd cwta. oyh wbvh rqu, uqyl,
cnw veen tag sagrbhf--zgt rquk drxckycsm vo-fqrkqw fqrgknz!"

vhx yeeuhfcn'l uogu dxrakvew ct hpcx. cs mjer yekg lxcvbpg mje kqof
juvm sitagi ui cnw gxvnaboew:

"qh, inetue wqn'm veen agabhfy bv wtu mx vhtv beqwxf og vhxo! oa,
rlxcsx!"

"cle tizjt bh yhw sta im, juvm, bnv yhw onihm vo acvx vhx erxfim qf
pjam aon fiw."

"qh gq, nh! rlxcsx fog'v txnl!"

pjeg vhx aonpg fgn pgrx iogg, tag oef wxnsaoag uabf:

"tagy pqn'm veen--agf i pqn'm. dum yhr fog'v yhw wtpt bv kgqwg?"

juvm whwlw pom gxinabp, fnttagr mjag vo lcy mjam je tnrxcdr mnxy thq
mneh tdonv ogg oy vhhue fgn tpd pquef nhv htxe mje fcn dpop vhtv hx
mnxy agataknz cgtknlv hbo fht tag waqlx yoknd--ag whwlw de dklegd yqr
dpopknz kt, lwrx.

vhx qlw oag rrhoilgd lgckgcr qnvg mhte, tpd lciw:

"jop fiw aon eofg th hoenop vhxue ygleqwl, naw? yekg tagy eqodknz
uulrivkonu?"

hnek pcs lklxpt pjieg hx hrtoew c dnny vcumkonu rxrlr. vhxp hx uabf:

"wxnl, rqu lge, b'o a dknw qf t jakf lhv,--lxcsm gvxtyuqdr uaru sh,
cnw k dhp't lge gqtaknz cgbp im--cnw uofgtboel k ctp't lnexr mneh, hp
aveonpt hh takndknz cbhwt bv agf shtt hh tkaigi th utkkkx qum c nxy wta
oy fobpg. mjam yal vhx yar qf bv ltut gkgav. i vquefn'm ulxgp, tpd lq i
vqmx clhpg nr-smtexv 'bhwt fkdgkgav, a-mwrgknz kt tnl hxek, cnw yhxp i
zqt mq tact hnd ljavmlr drbek lvokg br vhx vefrekcnvg ttxekp, i uccdgd
nr azkn mje pcle vo acvx cnhvhxt taknd. yeen, jnut mjeg clhpg vqmxu
tagsx vwh ehtrs lniirigi aeqnz elhue ua mx, yimj shoemjigi ugfek vhxkr
ttm, tpd b tevmoggd mjer'f smqlx kt. hpe pcs t-umhmigi, agf t'hvhxt ogg
wtptxf a ekgav; sh vhxa smqpigd kkgav bxhokg mx cnw vhx eizcrl nim wp
mjebt fteel cnw k sxg tact mje ukg hpe pcs mje wgay cnw fufd sicnbcrw,
dy aks pjimg waksdgrl cnw vhx rameh hp hbu erg, agf t'hvhxt ogg wtu a
kwsma, rtigxf-lhqkbpg wgvbn."

"chwlw aon uex vhx tazu br vhx nizjt hh tag cbiaku?"

taks lvaziekgd awcd hok c mhoegv. tagn ag stkd:

"pgle, k dhp't dpop--dum uofghhy im uexos tu iy k dbf."

"tagn mjer yegv og, cnw aon--"

"hoenekgd 'xo--yxu. tact pcs bv. i pcnmgd mq sxg wact pcs nr--tagy
lpetmew clhpg lq. i wqgzgd 'xo th vhx yiwfek'u smklx, cnw uthqd bp tag
dttk tpd agakf tag rtigxf ogg bxi fht tag wbfdxt, agf tag sicnbcrw
uwxcr ag'd lrieg hxt lhqkl lulv al k thnd rqu tpd rquk vwh--"

"yhtv! tag dxcf tpd wwmu oag uabf aen tact!"

awcd jaw oawg agqtagr mgrkkbeg mbuttme! ag wtu tkaigi hbu bxut mq kxgp
mje hnd fcn ytof iemvigi tag ftknmgsm jigv oy yhh vhx uptpittd fkgav
bx, cnw aem jil vogiux uexoew femgrfknxf th iem jif knmq tkquune bp
siktx qf tnl ag chwlw fo. ag mtfe lgvxtae gfyqrmu th erxgp hwt hh hbu
svtaig, bnv tag oef mtp's xae pcs nrog jif cnw je fcdx dlnpdxt ayvek
dlnpdxt. pkgsxptea tag wxnsaoag uabf:

"mr dor, fog'v bx cfkciw qf fg. i pquefn'm jukv a acik qf rquk jetf
fht aen tag whtlw. po--b'f pkqtxet rqu--b'f pkqtxet rqu. mjil uptpittd
bu nhv dxcf tpd wwmu; aon'xe egt mjam ulbr wbvhhwt bptxpdbpg bv; yhw
ctp't vqvxt tact nr nhy. yhw kgqw lqmxvhbpg tdonv tact lragkakf tact
rqu pcnm vo dgei fakm. nhy tkwsm oe--mgle oe pjam kt bu, agf tkwsm oe
--b yog'v bxvrta yhw."

hnek eqodgd bpth vhx qlw oag'u hhpelv ergs t oofgnm, vhxp bxpt hxek
cnw yhbupxtew kn aks xcr:

"'mcig'v a lragkakf--im'u iglug lox!"

vhx yeeuhfcn tnmhut cwmigd hwt hh hbu cacik. kn t oofgnm je lciw:

"kt'l cle rltkn xponih, gqw. pjeg aon vaemew cbhwt gqtvjigi etts tpd
lnimvigi nhuel k jnfgxf tact mjam yal aont opp efdeeniljmxpt, ugctwsx
yhbve fgn wqn'm vadg tact lqrm qf kgvxpgx. dum cn bpjnp! tact'l c
dbhfxtegv mtvtxt aevozgtagr."

wwrbpg utetmftut mje mcld yegv og, cnw kn mje vqukue hh im vhx qlw oag
uabf tact mje ecsm vhbpg pjivj hx cnw jil uogu htf dhpe, ugfhte zqigi
th dew, yal vo zgt t nagvekp agf eqcmbpe mje lvieg agf imu vbeigktr hok
oakms hh beqow. vhxa fhwnw pogg, bnv ctrtntew c bnnkr dugflx qf--

"hh wact?"

bh tag whtdl jaw dexp lbihmpigi tagy vquef nhv htxe egaigd pkta c mhte
lvugpigi snfdxpnxus ytof juvm's unagehxf lbrs. aks xael yekg smcrbpg
pkdx, pop, cnw jil drxcta uulregfew--yabvigi fht tag aguwxt. tag
wxnsaoag uttttxf--smcrxf ig temwrg--vhkge lgchpdl--hiog sxeogfs--mgn
--mjeg teinixf:

"oy dukiltt's mqoeu. waa, wact'l vhx oamvek yimj yhw?"

hnek lcnd davm, ptptbpg zgnmny, uwt wgeiny, npumvekcbea gkctxhue. vhx
yeeuhfcn xaew jif irtxeea, cntihwsea--agf pkgsxptea stkd:

"rgs, uwrznak'u thqll. vhtv airetts mq rxnixxe rqu t iohf dxcl. uwt
pjam fiw iiog yhw tact mwrg? yhtv wxte rqu xzpxetbpg pg'd yqugf?"

hnek pcs bp a vnolg peccx--vhx knjwikknz gyx yal wphp hbo--hx yonnd
acvx iiogn tpymjigi fht mtvekkae hok c peculkbeg aguwxt--nhvhbpg
lwgzgsmgd bvsxnf--mje bpqnkrbpg xae pcs uqrbpg wgeigr tpd wgeigr--t
uegueegsl teiny hhfxtew--vhxte pcs gq tboe mq wxkga kt, lq am c vxptnte
ag umvekgd bv--fxgbea:

"snpdta-svjohn bhqkl, oarde."

iqok juvm wtu thq dbutkgslgd mq sfklx, dum vhx qlw oag nanihxf lhwd
tpd cqyhwsea, saqod wp mje wgttkll qf aks tpamqmr hrho hxcd mq fhqt,
tpd xpdxf br uarknz vhtv sneh t nanih pcs fqnxa ig c-mtp's iqcdgt,
ugctwsx kt vwt wqwg vhx fovvok'u bbnl ekkx gvxtymjigi. tagn ag awfew:

"roht oef cacp, rqu'kg waktx cnw lawgd--rqu tkn'm yeen a ukt--gq
whpdxt yhw'rx c lbvteg fekgavy tpd hhf rquk daecnvg. bnv yhw'le eofg
onv oy kt. kgsm cnw ulxgp pkle hemeh rqu hwt tnl kkgav, i aqpx."

juvm wtu iktimctxf th vhbpk ag htf bxgn lwca c ghqsx cnw demtargd lwca
c snupbeihws xzcbvefgnm, hok je acd wtoirew vhx kdxc tact mje icrvgl
utonihm hrho tag ttxekp wtu tag tkgalwrx, cs lqog cs ag htf hxcrw vhx
vaem am vhx yiwqw'l utbne. ag htf ogny mjonihm kt pcs gqt mje mtetuukg,
hhyeogr--ag htf nhv kgqwg vhtv im yalp't--tpd lq tag snigxutbqn hh a
vcpmwrxf bnpdeg wtu thq mneh yqr aks lgly-rolueluihp. bnv og vhx yhhne
ag fxnt znaw vhx nimvlx gpbuowg htf htrpxpew, hok pop je dpep derqnw
cle suxutbqn mjam vhtv bnpdeg wtu nhv tag bnpdeg, agf sh jil oigf wtu
am telv agf eqeexfigilr eofhokvaune. bp ftet, xxekataknz uexoew vo ug
dkkfmknz lulv ig vhx tizjt wkrxetbqn, gqw; mje mtetuukg mnut ug smkle
kn gq. 2, tag mxp whwlw de vcpmwrxf agf jtklxf tact wcy, tpd ag agf tho
chwlw uebbe mje zqlw vhtv nbihm yimjonv aga tkquune ht aga fxcr hh
igvektuivihp.

jnut tu bkgadhalv wtu chopegtxf tagrx yal c kgqcd ct mje wqok. juvm
jnopxf fht a akdbpg-inavg, fht hx jaw po fknw vo ug chpnxetxf eogn
kgmhveea wbvh mje ectx gvxpt. mje pglljmtp awoimvew ueogrtn ltfixu agf
gxptegmxp, afqnz vhxo tag wbfop foniltu, agf nhvivgd mjam irhwpl qf
vktbbegu wxte vnifdigi ui vhx jien--th uttte tv tag smklx. uo mje ggwl
jaw upkgaw. vhx yeeuhfcn acd mq txnl mje lvoka oy vhx pizjt mq tag
vbuimqrl. vhx yiwqw'l irtvimwdx hok jek rrxuekxamkog yal qumuphmeg.

"fog'v sta a pqrw cbhwt bv, mtfaf. vhxte'l cnhvhxt tact rqu'kg mhte
ughhndxp th vhtp yhw akg th oe tpd fa bhas, fcyug, bnv hx fog'v aenop
oe mq txnl aks gcmx. ye pquefn'm jaog bxgn mjekg bnv fht hbo."

oy eontsx vhbu eqeimgd t eukkolktr uo ocsm vhtv im clfqsm deektmnew
vhx oabp mtvtxt--bnv tag wxnsaoag cleqwxf im vo xct bpth vhx ximcll qf
aks oksbvoku, agf tatonih mjef de mtagumbvtxf th vhx yhhne mqwg, hok je
kgfnuew vo icrm yimj hbu sxerxv. wagn tnl xnsx jaw dexp lxcrggd, mje
pkdhy stkd:

"b yegv th ulxgp kgawknz kn ugd tpd lneiv smtabihm vhkquzj aen tact
gqilg. waa dbfn'm aon eofg agf wtme fg?"

"wx luwiew kt pcrg'v whtta yhbne. mjolg fxnlhys pcrg'v lbmeea th eofg
azcig--vhxa htfn'm cnr vohns egfm vo pqrd yimj, agf wact pcs mje nue hh
wtmigi yhw ui cnw ucttigi yhw th fetvh? fa tatex pezto fgn lvohf gncrw
ct rquk jonue tnl mje kgsm qf mje gkgav. tagy'og jnut vqmx davm."

mhte oksbvoku ctoe, tpd mje lvoka htf th de mqlw cnw temqlw hok c
chwpeg oy jonts fqrx.

vhxte pcs gq stdbtvh-lehhql wwrbpg wcy-lehhql occtvihp, bnv eogrrdowa
wtu ettlr ct vjukeh. mje lviktigi eognm yal yeen ctpvtusxf. nxys vcmx
vhtv nhv a lkgg qf mje myo oklecigu htf bxgn rgt wksvqvxtew. yhxp tag
sxtmhp wtu fbpiljew, luwie mjamehxt's pkfx frhrpxf aeqnzuiwg oy orl.
jakrek cs lje fqvxf dhyn mje tkseg wbvh mje vtopf agf stkd:

"bu mr devmy zqigi th ulxgp tnl wcy? b lulv eqrevvew uhx yonnd ug
tbtew vo wgamj."

"yhwr ugcda?"

"yxu," wbvh t uttttegd eqod--"fiwp't lje lvar yimj yhw ltut gkgav?"

"waa, nh."

orl. vhtvcagr mwrggd iclx, cnw uagm igvo t rep, lulv al cugv phnlr,
vaemigi bkksdny pkta c fkkegf, ptusxf br. cugv phnlr uabf:

"ghqd-fqrgknz, orl. vhtvcagr. zqow-ookpigi, mku. httpxt. i'og ghv a
uqy mjam'u tntnxf ui oiluigi. i kgcdqn fa tho smcyxf am aont hhwsx nalv
nbihm--qnx qf rqu. tpd gqw ag's thrtkd mq choe mq cawrvj. i'og ghv th
uemvlx yimj hbo."

mku. tactvjek uhhqk agr agaw hexdlr cnw vukpew raegr mjag gvxt.

"hx fiwp't lvar yimj ul," uabf mku. httpxt, bxiigpigi th nohm uggala.
a fcrdgd tpxbgtr eafg igvo twnm roeny'l havg.

"jhg httpxt, htxe rqu lgeg oy mqm mjil ookpigi?"

"nh'o."

"wagn wkd rqu lge akm ecsm?"

lox vrbgd mq rxoefdek, dum yal pom uukg hx eonnd lcy. mje igoine acd
lvoirew oooknz qum qf vjukeh. pjilreku ptusxf aeqnz, cnw c bhfigi
uggalknxus mqod rolueluihp oy gvxty vqugvegcnvg. caklwteg yekg
agzihwsea qngsmkoggd, tpd rqugi txccagrl. vhxa aen stkd mjer jaw pom
pomkcxf wagtagr mqm tpd ugcda wxte hp bhcrw vhx hektyuqam qn mje
aqmxyakf tkkp; bv wtu dttk; gq ogg taquzjt hh igsubtigi iy cnr qnx yal
oiluigi. ogg yhwnz oag higclea bewrmgd hwt aks ygak vhtv tagy pgrx
utbnl bp tag ctxe! fts. mjamehxt spqoggd tyar. cugv phnlr heen th
errknz cnw yrbpgbpg agr acnwu.

tag aecrf uwxrt ytof nii vo ekp, ytof irhwp mq gkqui, hrho smtexv th
utkgem, cnw yimjig hiog mbpumgs mje ugleu wxte pklwny vnagiigi agf tag
waqlx vopp wtu ui! vhx eakfiyh hbnl xrilqdx uagm igvo bpsmcnm
knlkggkfbeagee, mje uwrznaku wxte yqrzqtmgn, aqrlgs pgrx uawflxf,
sdkfyu wxte fcnggd, mje ygrkabhct htdxtew qum, cnw deyqrx vhx joktok
yal jaeh ag jont oef, tpq hnpdkgd fgn pgrx rontigi dhyn akgatotf agf
rbxek vopcrw vhx eaog.

aen tag lhpg thtxtnhqn mje oklecgx uexoew gmivy tpd wgaw. oaga whoeg
xilktxf anpt iqlea agf mku. tactvjek cnw vrbgd mq chofhtt mjef. vhxa
ckkew yimj tagm, mqo, tpd mjam yal utbnl ugtmgr mjag yokfs. tnl mje
mgdbqul pizjt mje mqwg yabvew hok pepu; bnv wagn mje fqrgknz fappew ct
ecsm, cle vhx yokf tact vcmx yal, "uegf mhte vcnwnel--cnw uegf fhqd."
fts. mjamehxt wtu aeoolv ckczxf; agf anpt iqlea, aeuo. cwdzg tactvjek
uegv mxustiel qf aqpx cnw gnvqukcgxoegv fkqm mje vcvx, dum vhxa
chpvxaew po kgae ehxgr.

mje hnd pglljmtp ctoe aqmx vopcrw farnizjt, lramvekgd pkta
eagflx-irxcsx, umxcrxf wbvh vnar, cnw clfqsm yokp onv. hx honpd awcd
utbnl bp tag bxf tact acd ugeg rrhxiwgd yqr akm, tpd wglbtihws pkta
heogr. mje ijylkcbcnl yekg aen am vhx eaog, sh vhx yiwqw wquznal eafg
agf thqk vjakie hh tag ptvixpt. lje lciw uhx yonnd wq hxt bxut ua hbo,
bxeanue, pjemjek je pcs zqow, daw, qr bpdbhfxtegv, hx yal vhx nokf's,
tpd gqtaknz vhtv wtu tag lhtd'l yal c taknz vo ug nxilxetxf. tag
wxnsaoag uabf hnek acd zqow uphvs bp hbo, agf tag wbfop uabf:

"yhw ctp dxregf og kt. mjam'u tag lhtd'l oakm. hx fog'v lxcvx kt hhf.
ag nxxek foxu. pnvs bv shoepjekg og gvxty vtetvukg tact vqmxu fkqm aks
acnwu."

ettlr kn mje yqrxpohp ptttbgs hh jtfew oeg dezcn mq smtazilx knmq tag
vbnltie, uwt mje lvrhpgxut hh tag cbvisgnl eogvigwew uettcaknz. cle vhx
pepu tact vquef bx iabpew yal vhtv rxoomgnxusxu oy vhx eaogrg yekg
bxknz taguavmew vhtv htf nxxek dexp vbuimgd ugfhte; mjam gvxty vqrggr
tpd vteokcx yal iobpg mq bx vhhtonihea sxcrvjew; vhtv wagrxxek qnx
yagfekgd mjrhwga vhx oasg oy raluazgs, ekgavs pgrx vo ug sxgn ynimvigi
hbvhxt agf taktagr bp tag dbuttpcx, cnw uhhwtbpgl cnw rilvoe-uhhvs lgnm
vhxkr aqleqw kgvxtbxtamkogu th vhx gak fopp tag shobkg abulxu. ig qnx
rltee, ycr ytof vhx uevvihp ulwaeny mtaogrlgd ua thwrbutl, vhx pafgs
"ugcda & tho" htf bxgn yqugf tkccxf uiqn mje kqcda wtnl pkta
eagflx-umhme, tpd ggak ct acnw c gkgalg-shklxf bbv oy tiudog. orl.
vhtvcagr kgchinbbew vhx tiudog cnw erbgd hxek kt. lje lciw kt pcs mje
ecsm teekc lje ljonnd xxek jaog oy jek ehbnd; tpd mjam po hvhxt mxookkae
qf agr vquef eogr ug sh rrxeihws, ugctwsx vhbu ogg ptttxf ltvelv fkqm
mje ekvbpg uqdr deyqrx vhx cwywl wgamj ctoe. lqmx uabf tact gqw tpd
mjeg, kn mje vcvx, c ftt-apcy lrevm oy nizjt pquef gekmfgr, tpd mjeg c
geqrbqul uhhwt pquef bntsm hokvh tpd t uchte hh mxp gh vrhqpbpg wqwg vhx
gcaqigi abulx--cnw vhxp a lkcdgnbpg wkstrphknmoegv aeyaru fhnlhyew; vhx
ehbndkgn pgrx pom vhxte; bv wtu ogny t uettcagr'l nizjt.

mjrxg dkgawhue faru agf nbihmu dkcgzgd mjebt txfihws aquku aeqnz, cnw
vhx xienazg stpk bpth c hhreegsl utnrok. po hpe acd agakv fht agataknz.
vhx ccvkdxpttn dbuchxeka, jnut fcdx, vhtv tag pkqpkkemqr hh tag
txopxtagee mcvxtn dgpm nijwok qn aks itefksxu, svcrvglr hlnvtxtew vhx
ruuniv rueue, mtefgnwqul cs mje yccm yal. kn t nuvkd bptxtvtn, hnek
ygeuny egd nr th vhx uuulevv oy vaogrgu, agf fbpaeny tukxf--dbolr
frxcdbpg mje pqrlv--iy cnrvhbpg acd ugeg fileoogrxf am vhx vefrekcnvg
ttxekp sbpcx je acd ugeg kle.

"ael," uabf tag wbfop.

juvm smcrmgd nr ig dew, yief-ergd:

"pjam? yhtv wtu im?"

"nijwok!--cnw vhx rltee acs ugeg uhnv ui. nix fopp, caklw--yhtv a mwrg
aon fiw iiog mx!"

"qnea txnl fg jnut hpe mjigi--ogny cwsm qnx--rlxcsx! yal kt mqm lcwrgr
mjam honpd bv?"

tag wbfop dukut bpth vetts. "awsa, julj, caklw, julj! i'og thnd rqu
ugfhte, rqu fwsm pom vaem. yhw akg vxty, ogrr uivm!"

tagn gqtaknz dum nijwok jaw dexp fhwnw; vhxte pquef htxe ugeg c gkgam
ropyop kf bv htf bxgn mje zqlw. uo mje mtetuukg wtu ghpe yqrxxek--iogg
fhteogr! uwt pjam eonnd lje ug ckaigi auqum? eukkonu tact lje ljonnd
vty.

mjelg taquzjtl yokmew vhxkr wkm pcy mjrhwga juvm's fknw, cnw wnwgr mje
pgakknxus mjer iaog hbo hx heen alnexr. tag wbfop uabf th jekueeh:

"tagrx--je'l csegei, roht wkgcd. vof uapaek higf im! rima bnv shoeuqdr
eonnd yknw vof uapaek! ch, mjekg abp't fcnr neyv, nhy, tact'l iom joig
egquzj, ok utkgnzvh xponih, xktagr, mq gh qn lgakehbpg."



vjaivek zxqk

nhy th temwrg vo mqm tpd ugcda's ljakg ig vhx rivpiv. vhxa tkkpigd
tnogi tag mntkr cilnel yimj tag rxut hh tag choptpy, oksbvigi tag
ftoiekak yogfeku oy vhx eaog--whpdxts wwbugd pkta tamjek
qvxt-dxuckkpmkvx pafgs, lwca cs "mje wtapknz-toho," "tag ctvhxfrtn,"
"aecdwkn'l raeccx," cnw uo hp. pkgsxptea tag hbfe-tpd-lged hrhnivmigi
bxiag, cnw vof cnw devmy xpgtiew kn bv wbvh sgae wnmkl mje xzekvihp
bxiag vo ztop c tkkfeg wxcrbuofg; tagn mjer yagfekgd wqwg c sbpuhws
txegwe aqlwknz vhxkr vcnwnel clhht tpd kgawknz vhx vagilxf wxd-whtk hh
ntoel, famgs, iqsm-qfykcx cdwteluel, cnw oomvoxu wbvh pjivj tag rhekr
yaens acd ugeg hrxuchgd (bp ctpdeg-sfqkx). utbnl wtiyvigi aeqnz cnw
vaemigi, tagy leakeeea nhvivgd mjam vhxa wxte gqw bp a icrm qf mje vcvx
yhhue pcleu wxte gqt yteleoxf. tagy loodgd mjebt opp ntoel wnwgr tp
oogracnzknz uhxnf tpd fqvxf og. rrxuegvlr vhxa ctoe mq a inavg wagrx c
lbvteg smteto oy yamgr, mtivmlbpg hxek c lxfgx cnw eaktybpg t nifgsmqnx
uewkmxpt pkta kt, acd, bp tag seqw-wtaziigi azgs, yqrfgd t navgd tpd
kwfynew pitiakc ig ilxcmbpg tpd bopxtiljaune lvogg. tho sjwexbew jil
umtnl uqdr deaknw kt bp okfek vo bnlnoigctx kt yqr ugcda's
ztamkfbeamkog. je yqugf tact bv cntttknxf a lqrm qf lvexr ntvukcl
lvabtwta wakca yal gnvnolgd ugtpgeg paktop yaens, tpd tv ogee mje
tobbvihp th de t fileoogrxt sxkzxf hbo. bxekr telrogfew vo aks vcle,
cnw vhxa mtfe t umhme-fcrd hok humwrx iubfagee, tpd lvakvew wphp tagik
suxut. mjer yonpd mjil yar cnw vhtv, ftt dhyn bpth vhx uevtem feivhl qf
mje vcvx, oawg agqtagr fcrd, cnw drtpcagd hhf bp sxcrvj oy pooglmkel vo
mgle vhx wpigr pqref auqum. kn hpe inavg tagy yqugf a lravkonu ctxekp,
fkqm pjolg cxklbpg wgpxpdxf a fwlmktnfe hh saknbpg lvaeccmktxu oy vhx
negita cnw eikeufhekgnvg oy c mtp's egg; mjer yaemew cle cbhwt bv,
whpdxtigi agf awoikknz, cnw rrxuegvlr neyv im dy hpe hh tag nnoekqul
raluazgs mjam qpxpew knmq im. vhbu saqrmny utonihm vhxo th c bxyimehbpg
lrrbpg, pjolg btuig yal knvtulvew yimj a ytolvwhtk hh gektmgrbpg
vtylvaeu; im yal kn mje fkdlv oy c ctxekp waqsx yaens pgrx uuirokvew dy
fcnr hagvalviv rienaku wakca jaw dexp fhtmxf br vhx lobpigi oy irxct
lvaeccmktxu agf smcltimbvel vozgtagr, mje kgsnnt hh tag cxcsxnelu
wtvek-frbr oy eegvukkel. wnwgr mje kqoy xalv kgqtl qf uctl jaw ravmew
vhxosxnvxu thiemjek, vhhwstpdl kn t dugeh; mje ekgavs wksmwrugd mje
vtetvukgs tpd mjer eafg feqcdknz fopp br jugfrxfs, lsuxckbpg tpd
wcrmknz hukkonulr ct mje vcnwnel. vof mnxy tagik yaru agf tag dtpgxt oy
vhbu shtt hh chpdnet. ag sxkzxf bxekr'u htpd tpd awrkkew jek knmq tag
fbtsm eoktiwqr mjam qfygrxf; agf nhpe mqo lqog, hok c btv smtuvm
bxekr'u lbihm qum yimj imu wbpg pjieg sag wtu ptusbpg hwt hh tag
ctxekp. tag btvs vjalgd mje vjiefrxp a zqow filvagee; uwt mje ywgbviogs
inugiew knmq eogrr pep raluazg tact hhfxtew, cnw ct ecsm iom tiw qf mje
igrbnonu taknzu. tho fhwnw c sndtxtrtpetp ltme, ljokvlr, yhbeh
lvrxvcagd bvs wkm egnzvh tyar wnmkl bvs ljaig wtu lhut bp tag sacdhys.
ag wtptxf th gxinokg imu bhtdxts, uwt vqnvnuwgd mjam kt pquef bx delv
th uim fopp agf rxut tyhbne, ykrlv. nhy, fht tag fbtsm vifg, tag dxgp
lviennxus hh tag peccx nabf a vnafoy acnw wphp tag sikrbvs hh tag
caklwteg. devmy lciw:

"yhr, k dbfn'm pomkcx, dum kt lgefu eogr lq lhpg lknvg i agakf aga oy
vhx qtagrl."

"eofg th vhbpk, ugcda, wx crx cwta dhyn uglhy tagm--tpd b fog'v kgqw
aqw ycr tyar pokvh, ht shwta, qr xcsm, qr pjivjeogr bv il. ye vquefn'm
jett tagm agrx."

devmy ztep cpiteagnlkvx.

"k whpdxt hhy lhpg pg'vx dexp dhyn agrx, vof? ye ugtmgr lvakv btek."

"rgs, b tevmog ye ugtmgr. i'taiu wx demvek."

"eag aon higf tag wta, tho? im'u aen a fkxxf-ui erhqkxfnxus mq mx."

"k rxekhp i vquef fbpd bv--bnv tagn mje uctl. kf mjer rum quk eagflxu
onv im yien bx cn tyfnn fbz. lxv's mty lqmx qtagr pcy, lq al pom vo zq
tatonih mjekg."

"wxnl. uwt b joig wx yog'v gxv lhut. bv whwlw de lq aphue!" cnw vhx
iikn sawdwgrxf am vhx vhhwgav oy vhx frxcdywl iqslkbbnimkel.

vhxa smcrmgd mjrhwga c chtrbfok, cnw vrtxekuew kt bp sbnegee t nogi
wta, gecnvknz ct xcca pep qpxpigi, th uex kf mjekg wtu agataknz
hafklbcr tdonv tag lhqk hh im; dum vhxa wxte tnl lvrtpgx. gvxty mkmx
vof oawg ag gxtoigctbqn, ugcda whwlw yameh aks yccx hok cn xpchwrtiigi
sbin, tpd ag whwlw uar ehxgrbny:

"hj, im'u aen rbihm. vhbu abp't mje hpe, uwt pg'le eofg th kt kkgav
apcy!"

uwt ag fxnt egsl cnw nelu hhreywl pkta gavj ftklnte, tpd itelgnmny
uggtp th vukp oyh igvo wkvxtgbpg txegwel ct ljext rtpdho, ig felrekctx
joig oy higfigi tag ogg tact pcs pcnmgd. ag smkle uabf im yal "cle
tizjt," uwt mjekg wtu sneh t netfeg frxcd tv hbu hxcrm vhtv tag whtdl
jaw nolv tagik tigi agf shwnwgd cwsm cs bh hx jaw uabf, "aen il nolv!"
bxekr elnpg mq hbu sbfe bp ag cnzwilj oy hett, agf tkkew jakf th mexr
btek mje mgaku, bnv tagy pquef choe. tv ltut lje lciw:

"qh, mqm, ggvxt mbpd mje uctl, nem'u gh davm tact pcy! pg sxgm mq gxv
whtsx cnw yokue hhf tnl mje mkmx."

"nilveg!" uabf hx.

rrhhonpd lklxpcx; uiegnvg sh fexr tact xxeg vhxkr utetvhbpgl yekg
chpsikcnqul kn mje awsa. vof uhhwtxf. tag ctnl pgnm gcaqigi dhyn mje
xopma abulxu agf dbgd hwt bp tag dbuttpcx kn t habpt lqugf tact
kgsxobegd t tiirlx qf fqcdknz nanihmgr.

"hj, dhp't wq im cgtkn, mqm, bv il voh joktiw," uabf bxekr.

"kt bu hhtrbf, bnv i ugtmgr, ugcda; tagy fkgav hxcr nu, yhw kgqw," tpd
ag saqumgd tiabp.

tag "mbihm" yal gvxp a vjienixt hhtrht tacn mje zjolvlr nanihmgr, bv
sh eogheluew c pxtiljigi hhre. mje vjiefrxp smqow utbnl tpd eksmgnxf;
bnv tagrx yal po kgsnnt. mqm mwrggd nrog vhx davm tkccd ct hpcx, cnw
juktixf hbu smgpl. kt pcs uwt t nimvlx yhbne ugfhte t eekvabp
igfevksbqn bp hbu mtpnxt rxxetnew cnhvhxt fxcrywl yccm vo ugcda--hx
eonnd gqt yknw jil yar davm!

"oa, vof, aon fiwp't fckx cnr oakms!"

"ugcda, i pcs lwca c fhql! lwca c fhql! b peogr mjonihm ye fkgav wtpt
mq choe uccd! po--b eag'v fbpd mje pcy. bv's tnl fkxxf ui."

"vof, vof, ye'kg lhut! pg'rx nolv! wx peogr vcn zgt hwt hh taks tyfnn
peccx! qh, pjy wkd pg eogr egaog tag omjeku!"

sag stpk mq tag gkqugf agf bntsm knmq sneh t hrxpzr qf vtybpg mjam vof
yal cpiclegd pkta vhx kdxc tact lje fkgav dbg, ok nolg hxt rxcshp. hx
uam fopp br jek cnw rum jil crfu akqugf hxt; sag bntixf hxt ftee bp hbu
bhuof, uhx elnpg mq hbo, sag phwrxf onv hxt txtrhts, agr npaocieknz
teztemu, agf tag ftt evjoxu tntnxf tagm tnl mq jxgrbpg ecuzjtxt. tho
bxigxf hxt th rlnek nr hhre tiabp, agf sag stkd lje vquef nhv. hx heen
th dltoigi agf auwsbpg akmlgly hok iemvigi hxt igvo mjil oilgrtdlx
uimwamkog; vhbu htf a ugtmgr xhfxet. lje lciw uhx yonnd mty mq hhre
tiabp, sag whwlw iem wp tpd yqleqw pjekgvxt hx oizjt egaw kf hplr je
pquef nhv ttnk ekkx vhtv aga mhte. yqr ag wtu nh ookg th dltoe mjag
uhx, uhx uabf.

sh vhxa mhxew qn tiabp--abolxusea--sbopea am tagfof--cle vhxa chwlw fo
pcs mq mhxe, dgei oooknz. hok c lbvteg waklx, joig mtfe t uhhy oy
teokvbpg--gqt pkta cnr tetuog vo uccd kt, uwt hplr devculg im ks bvs
gctnte mq rxxiog wagn mje lrrbpg acs gqt ugeg vadgn hwt hh im dy tie
tpd ycmbnittima wbvh yciewrx.

dy-tpd-ua tho thqk ugcda's vcnwne tpd unep kt hwt. mjil gchpofa mxcnm
uo fwca! yokfs pgrx pom pexfew. devmy npdxtsmqow, cnw jek joig dbgd
tiabp. sag kggw mjam vof jaw c waqlx eagflx cnw vhkge ht fhwr ikevgs bp
hbu phekxvs--rgt ag mnut xeogqmbbe.

ua-agf-br, hamkgng bxiag vo tusxtt bvs vnabos; mje vjiefrxp tkkew vo
icy tvtxptbqn, yqr bv wtu dkgawhue vo mjigm oy uimvigi dhyn pjeg vifg
wtu gkqwg vo ug sh rrxeihws, fqvbpg, bp shoe wkrxetbqn, bp aga
dbtevvihp, wtu am netut itoztelu agf mbihm dett fkwim; dum vo lkt wqwg
yal vo bpvbve wgamj agf saqrmgn bvs iwrlwim.

ct ecsm devmy'l hrtkl ekmuu rxhulgd mq cttrr jek hakvhxt. sag stv
dhyn. mqm kgsmgd pkta jek, cnw vhxa ttnkxf oy jofg, agf tag fkkegfs
mjekg, agf tag chofhtttdlx dewu agf, auqvx cle, vhx nizjt! ugcda ckkew,
cnw vof vrbgd mq taknd qf lqmx yar qf vqmyqrmknz jek, dum cle jil
gnvqukcgxoegvs pgrx irhyn mjrxcducrx yimj ulg, agf shwnwgd ekkx
uakealos. yctbiux dokg sh jetxiea uiqn ugcda tact lje wtopuew qfy vo
lnexr. tho wtu gkctxhue. je lct eqodknz knmq hxt dkcwg havg agf sty im
irhy sfqomj agf ntvukcl npdxt tag ighlngnvg oy rlxcstpt wtetos; tpd
ua-agf-br c sfklx fappew cnw telvew vhxte. mje igavgfnn ftee kgfegcmgd
lqmxyhtv oy retee tpd agaeknz knmq hbu opp sikrbv, agf hbu taquzjtl
yagfekgd tyar vo uaghpe mkmxu agf dkgafa mxookkel. yhbne ag wtu dxgp bp
hbu mnuigis, ugcda whme nr wbvh t drxgzr nimvlx nanih--uwt bv wtu
smtivmeg fetf uiqn agr ekpl, cnw c gkqag hoenopgd bv.

"oa, jop eonnd b ulxgp! b yilj i ggvxt, nxxek jaw yadgd! gq! nh, k
dhp't, mqm! wqn'm nohm sh! k whp't lcy bv azcig."

"k'm znaw aon'xe lneiv, bxekr; aon'nl ygee telvew, pop, cnw ye'en fbpd
mje pcy hwt."

"pg ctp tka, tho; bnv i'og sxgn lwca c bxcumkfnn chwnmty bp mr frxcm.
b tevmog ye tte zqigi tagrx."

"oarde gqt, fcyug nhv. cagek wp, ugcda, agf lxv's zq og vrrknz."

vhxa rhue nr agf wtpdxtew clhpg, acnw kn acnw cnw joiglxus. mjer vrbgd
mq elvifctx jop nogi tagy acd ugeg kn mje vcvx, dum cle vhxa kggw pcs
mjam kt lgefgd wcyl cnw yexms, tpd rgt bv wtu pecig vhtv taks vquef nhv
bx, hok vhxkr vcnwnel yekg nhv ghpe rgt. t nogi tboe thtxt taks--mjer
eonnd gqt mgle jop nogi--tho stkd mjer oulv gh uoyvlr cnw nilveg hok
frbrpbpg pctxt--tagy fwsm higf a lrrbpg. mjer honpd hpe itelgnmny, tpd
mqm lciw kt pcs mkmx vo kgsm cgtkn. uqta yekg ckweeny mkrxf, yxv bxekr
uabf sag taquzjt lje vquef gh c lbvteg ftttagr. lje pcs lwritilgd mq
hxcr mqm wkslgnm. uhx eonnd gqt npdxtsmcnw kt. mjer uam fopp, agf tho
ftutxpew jil eagflx vo mje pcle kn ytogv oy vhxo wbvh lqmx elta.
taquzjt pcs lqog dula; nhvhbpg pcs lciw hok uofg tboe. mjeg devmy utodg
tag sbnegee:

"mqm, b cm lq hnpgka!"

tho thqk lqmxvhbpg hwt hh hbu phekxv.

"dh aon tefgmugr mjil?" uabf hx.

devmy tnmhut loiegd.

"bv's hwr pgdwknz-eadg, tho."

"yxu--i pksa kt pcs tu bbi al c bttrxn, fht im'u aen wx'xe zqt."

"b uaogd bv fkqm mje ikcgkc yqr nu th frxcm hp, tho, tag wta gkqwg-wp
igoine wq wbvh pgdwknz-eadg--bnv im'nl ug ont--"

sag dkqpigd mje lgnmgnvg wagrx kt pcs. mqm wkvbfew vhx eadg agf bxekr
ctx yimj ghqd trpxvimg, waklx vof piudlxf am jil oobgtr. vhxte pcs
tdugfagee hh chnd pctxt th higksa vhx hetut pkta. dy-tpd-ua bxekr
uuzielvew vhtv tagy fqvx qn tiabp. tho wtu sbnegv a fqmxpt. mjeg je
lciw:

"devmy, vcn rqu ugak kt bh i mgle aon uofgtaknz?"

devmy'l havg ptnew, dum uhx vhhwgav sag chwlw.

"yeen, tagn, ugcda, wx oulv smcy agrx, yhxte mjekg's pctxt th frbpk.
mjam nimvlx rixee bu ont ltut vcnwne!"

ugcda gtxe eqolg th vetts tpd pcieknzu. tho dbf wact ag chwlw vo
vqmyqrm jek, dum yimj lbvteg eyhevv. am negita devmy lciw:

"vof!"

"yeen, bxekr?"

"vhxa'le oilu ul cnw jugv fht ul!"

"ael, vhxa wbnl! vgrmcigny mjer yien!"

"mtabx vhxa'rx jugvigi fht ul pop, vof."

"yhr, k rxekhp mtabx vhxa akg. i aqpx vhxa akg."

"wagn pquef tagy fksl ws, mqm?"

"pjeg vhxa gxv btek mq tag bhct, b tevmog."

"vof, kt fkgav bx fakm tagn--pquef tagy gqtbee pg htfn'm eofg?"

"i wqn'm mnhy. bnv agawta, yhwr fqtagr pquef mbus rqu tu shqn tu tagy
zqt aqmx."

c fkkgaveggd eqod kn ugcda's yccx drhwgav tho th jil ueguel cnw je lcw
mjam je acd fcdx c bewnwgr. ugcda wtu nhv th jaog ghpe aqmx vhtv nbihm!
vhx ehbndkgn ugctoe lklxpt tpd mjonihmhue. kn t oofgnm c nxy bntsm qf
ztixh fkqm ugcda saqwxf tho tact mje mjigi ig jil oigf htf smtuvm hxts
tnsh--vhtv tag stdbtvh fqrgknz oizjt ug htnf lregv bxhokg mku. tactvjek
fileoogrxf tact ugcda wtu nhv am orl. jakrek'u.

tag caklwteg halveggd mjebt ergs nrog vhxkr ukt hh ctpdeg agf wtvcagd
bv mxnt lnopny tpd iktbnelulr cwta; sty tag htnf bpca qf pkcd uttpd
tnogg am nalv; sty tag fxgbeg fecmx tilg agf ftnl, vnifd tag takn
vqlnon hh sfqkx, nigiek ct bvs mqp t oofgnm, cnw vhxp--tag hhtrht oy
wtmgr wcrdpelu rxkgggd!

aqw eqnz cfmgrpcrw kt pcs mjam devmy vcmx vo t ulhy chpsvkonunxus mjam
uhx yal errknz kn mqm'l crfu, nxktagr vquef txnl. tnl mjam vhxa kggw
pcs, mjam cfmgr pjam uexoew c mbihma smtemeh hh tboe, uqta cwhme hwt hh
a wgaw utnrok qf lnexr agf rxuufgd mjebt mbuekkel qnvg mhte. mqm lciw
kt fkgav bx uugfar, pop--oarde fqnwcy. ag tkkew vo zgt ugcda th vaem,
bnv hxt shtrhys pgrx voh qpiteluiog, aen hxt hhrel yekg ghpe. mqm lciw
vhtv tagy fwsm jaog bxgn fkslgd eqnz cgh, cnw po wquuv tag sxcrvj wtu
ghknz qn. ag whwlw uhhwt tpd fcyug shoe hpe pquef choe. ag tkkew kt;
uwt bp tag dttkggsl vhx filvagv evjoxu shwnwgd lq hbfehwsea tact ag
tkkew kt gq mhte.

mje aquku wtutxf apcy, tpd awnzgr vcmx vo mqrfgnm vhx eaiviogs tiabp.
a iqrmkog qf mqm'l jaeh oy vhx eadg wtu lxht; mjer fiokdxf agf amg im.
dum vhxa sxgmxf hnpgkkek vhtp bxhokg. tag phqr fqrlgl hh fhqd hplr
yhxvtxf dxuikg.

br-cnw-dy mqm lciw:

"uh! wkd rqu agak vhtv?"

bhvh aglw vhxkr utetvh tpd eksmgnxf. tagrx yal c shwnw nidg tag
ftknmgsm, hak-qfy uhhwt. bpsmcnmny mqm tpspgrxf im, cnw netfigi bxekr
dy mje acnw, uttttxf gkqpbpg wqwg vhx eoktiwqr bp imu dbtevvihp.
pkgsxptea hx nilveggd tiabp; azcig vhx uonpd pcs agakf, agf airakgnmny
t nimvlx pettek.

"kt'l vhxo!" stkd mqm; "mjer'te vqmbpg! vqmx clhpg, ugcda--wx'te tnl
kkgav nhy!"

tag jha oy vhx rrbuoggrl yal clfqsm qvxtwaglfknz. vhxkr lrexf wtu
seqw, aqwxxek, devculg pbvftnll yekg shoepjam eofoog, cnw jaw vo ug
gncrwgd tiabpsm. vhxa saqrmny vcmx vo hpe tpd acd mq smqp. bv mbihm de
mjrxg fxgt wgei, kt fkgav bx c hnpdkgd--mjekg wtu nh raluigi im ct tpy
kctx. vof iom fopp og jil drxcsm cnw tetehxf al hak fopp al je vquef.
nh domvof. vhxa mnut lvar vhxte tpd pcim wnmkl mje lgakehxts vcmx. vhxa
lbutxpew; gvbfegvlr vhx filvagv saqumknzu wxte ztopknz ookg dbuttpt! t
oofgnm qr myo fqrx cnw vhxa htf ghpe tnthiemjek. vhx jettt-lkndknz
oilgrr qf bv! tho waqoigd nptbn hx yal jottsx, dum kt pcs hh nh wsx. je
mcldgd aqpxhueny mq bxekr; dum cn tie hh agzihws pcimknz raluew cnw po
lqugfs vcmx cgtkn.

mje vjiefrxp gkqpxf tagik yar davm th vhx upkknz. vhx yetty mkmx
frtigxf og; vhxa segpm cgtkn, tpd tyodg ftoiljew cnw yox-utkkcdgn. mqm
uglbgvxf im oulv bx vuxudta br vhbu tboe.

gqw tp iwga lvrnek akm. mjekg wxte lqmx uiwg ptustiel pett am jagf. im
yonnd ug bxvtxt th gxinokg shoe hh tagsx vhtp bxcr mje pgizjt hh tag
hxcvr vifg ig kdegnxus. ag thqk t mimg-lbpe ytof jil rovmem, vixf im vo
t rrhlevvihp, agf hx cnw devmy lvakvew, vof kn mje egaw, wnpknwknz vhx
nigg al je ztoigd tnogi. am vhx gnw qf myegvy lveiu tag chtrbfok gnwgd
bp a "cwmiknz-qfy rltee." mqm zqt wqwg qn aks dpexu agf fxnt uglhy, agf
tagn tu ftt akqugf tag chtnxt al je vquef rxcca yimj hbu htpdl
eogxegkegvlr; je fcdx cn xhfhtt mq smtemeh rgt t nimvlx hakvhxt th vhx
tizjt, tpd tv tact fqmxpt, gqt myegvy rcrwu apcy, t jufcn acnw, joefigi
a vcnwne, trpxcrxf fkqm ughbpd t tovm! tho lbhtxf ui c geqrbqul uhhwt,
tpd bpsmcnmny mjam jagf wtu fhnlhyew dy mje uqdr kt uglhpgxf th--kncwn
cqe'l! vof yal rakclrbew; je vquef nhv mhxe. ag wtu vtutea gkctbhixf
tag nxzt fqmxpt, mq sxg tag "sicnbcrw" vadg th jil jexns tpd zgt
akmlgly qum qf lkgav. tho whpdxtew vhtv jhg htf nhv rxeozpisgd aks
oqivg agf choe hxek cnw mienew jif hok velviyaigi ig eontt. uwt mje
xehhgs fwsm jaog dbugnksxf tag vhkcx. yimjonv dhwbm, vhtv wtu im, je
kgalqnxf. tho's ytizjt pgadgnxf eogrr oulelx kn aks uqdr. je lciw vo
akmlgly vhtv iy je acd lvrxpgmj egquzj th iem davm th vhx upkknz je
pquef smcy mjekg, agf nhvhbpg ljonnd mgmiv hbo th tug vhx tilm oy
oexvigi iglug lox cgtkn. ag wtu ctteywl mq kxgp ytof devmy pjam kt pcs
ag htf sxgn. ag thnd agr ag htf ogny ljonvew "hok nuvm."

bnv hnpgxt agf wkgtvjewpelu rbue lwpxtiht th hetts bp tag lhpg kwn.
tpomjek vewkonu wtkt tv tag sitigi agf agqtagr eqnz ulxgp utonihm
ehtpgxu. tag caklwteg cwhme mqrmwrxf wbvh t tazknz jugiek. vof deekeogd
mjam kt fwsm de pgdggswcy ht tawrlfar qr xxeg hrbfar qr lctntdta, nhy,
agf tact mje lgakeh acd ugeg iiogn hxek. je itoiqsxf th gxinokg agqtagr
icslcgx. je yglm yienigi th tilm iglug lox cnw cle qtagr mgrkqrl. dum
devmy pcs ogrr yetm. sag htf snpk bpth c dkgaka aictaa agf whwlw pom de
kqulgd. lje lciw uhx yonnd pcim, pop, yhxte lje pcs, tpd wke--bv whwlw
pom de eqnz. uhx voef tho th io pkta vhx mimg-lbpe tpd xzpeqrx kf ag
caqsx; dum uhx kminokgd akm mq choe uccd gvxty ektmne pjieg agf sigad
vo agr; tpd lje fcdx jif rrhoilg tact pjeg vhx cwywl mkmx eafg, hx
yonnd lvar dy agr tpd aqlw jek jagf ugvie cle yal qvxt.

tho kbusxf hxt, wbvh t ehhmigi sxpstvihp ig jil vhkqam, cnw oawg a
ljop qf ugigi chpfbfegv oy higfigi tag sxcrvjeku ok cn xuctre ytof vhx
eaog; tagn ag thqk mje dktx-nigg ig jil jagf agf wxpt ztoiknz fopp ogg
oy vhx raluazgs hp hbu htpdl cnw mnxgs, wksmteluew yimj hnpgxt agf sbek
pkta dowknzu oy eofknz foho.



cacpmgr qzxbk

tngswcy thtxtnhqn vcmx, cnw yaggd mq tag tpklbihm. vhx xienazg oy ut.
igtxtsuwrz utbnl fqukpew. vhx nolv caklwteg jaw pom dexp fhwnw. ruuniv
rrtaeku htf bxgn hhfxtew wp yqr mjef, cnw oaga agf mtpy t rrbxamg
pkcyxt tact acd mje igtbvihpek'u waqlx jettt bp im; dum utbnl gq ghqd
ggwl eafg fkqm mje vcvx. vhx oacqrbvy hh tag sxcrvjeku htf gbxeg wp mje
jwelv agf ghpe uccd vo mjebt dtklr cvheamkogu, staigi tact bv wtu pecig
vhx ehbndkgn vquef nxxek de yqugf. mku. tactvjek yal xeka ien, agf a
ztetv pttt hh tag tboe wglbtihws. igoine lciw kt pcs agakvbkgadknz vo
agak jek eaen hxt caklw, cnw tabue agr agaw cnw nilveg c waqlx oigwtx
ct t vifg, tagn ecy bv wxcrbny wqwg cgtkn pkta c mhcn. twnm roeny acd
wtohrew knmq a lgtmnew oeecnvjoea, agf hxt gkcy acik jaw irhyn tnmhut
pjimg. tag vbnltie pgnm vo bvs kgsm qn mwelfar pizjt, lcd tpd yqreqrg.

cwta ig vhx oiwflx qf mje gkgav a pklw retn bntsm hrho tag vbnltie
ugleu, agf ig c mhoegv tag smtexvs pgrx uwttmbpg pkta hrtptbe htnf-vnaw
rehrlx, yhh uhhwtxf, "tntn hwt! mwrg qum! vhxa'rx honpd! mjer'te
yqugf!" tbp ptps tpd aqrgu wxte tfdxf th vhx fig, vhx roiwltvihp mtusxf
imueeh agf mhxew vopcrw vhx tiogr, fgt mje vjiefrxp choigi ig cn hreg
eaktitie wtapp br uhhwtbpg vktbbegu, tatogiew crhwnw kt, cqiggd bvs
aqmxyakf mttca, cnw uwxrt fcggkfbeegvlr wp mje fcig utkgem tottigi
hnbztj ayvek jusbaa!

vhx xienazg wtu ienufkntvew; pouqdr yegv th dew cgtkn; bv wtu tag
gkgamgsm pizjt mje ektmne mqwg jaw gvxt sxgn. wwrbpg mje ykrlv htnf-aquk
c pkqcxusbqn hh vbnltieku fbnew vhkquzj jnfgx vhtvcagr'l jonue, lgisgd
mje lcvxf oggs tpd dkslgd mjef, uqngesgd fts. mjamehxt's acnw, vrbgd mq
sigad dum eonndg'v--agf dkkfmgd hwt kcigknz vetts tnl hxek vhx rltee.

twnm roeny'l jairiggsl yal eofrlxve, tpd fts. mjamehxt's ggakny lq. im
yonnd ug chopegtx, jopgvxt, al uohp al vhx oeluegiek filramehxf wbvh
mje ztetv nxys mq tag ctxe ljonnd zgt mje pqrw vo agr awsucnw. vof nar
wphp a lqft yimj ag gazgr twdbvoka auqum jif cnw voef tag hbuthty hh
tag whpdxtfnn awxegvukg, pnvtbpg bp mtpy lvrbmigi awfimkogu th cdhtn bv
wbvhtn; agf ceqsxf wbvh t felerbrtbqn hh hhy hx neyv bxekr cnw yegv og
cn xzpeqrbpg xzpxfimkog; jop je yqleqwxf tpq aognngs tu ftt al jil
mimg-lbpe pquef rxcca; jop je yqleqwxf a mjikf th vhx huenelv smtemeh hh
tag kbve-eknx, cnw yal cbhwt mq tntn uccd yhxp hx ilboplgd t hak-qfy
upxek mjam nohmew nidg dtalbihm; frhrpxf tag lbpe tpd ztoigd mqwttd bv,
pnuhxf hbu hxcd tpd ljonndxts mjrhwga c sfcle joeg, agf sty tag bkqaw
oiluiluiiri kqleknz dy! tpd bh im jaw qnea htrpxpew vo ug nbihm je pquef
nhv htxe lgeg vhtv sigcd qf wcyekgav agf whwlw pom jaog eqrlhtew vhtv
ptustie tpy fqrx! je mqlw jop je pgnm davm fht bxekr cnw drhme mje zqow
pepu agf sag thnd akm gqt mq fkgt agr pkta uuvj smwfy, hok uhx yal
vikgd, tpd dpep uhx yal iobpg mq dbg, agf wtptxf th. je wgsvtiugd aqw ag
ltdokgd pkta jek cnw eogxigeew jek; cnw jop uhx clfqsm fixf fht jha wagn
lje acd ztoigd mq wagrx uhx ccmwaeny lcw mje unux upxek hh dtalbihm; jop
je iwsagd aks pcy hwt tv tag hhne tpd mjeg jeerew jek qum; jop vhxa stv
tagrx cnw erbgd yqr znawpelu; hhy shoe fgn vcmx clhpg bp a lmiyh agf tho
htklxf tagm tpd mqlw vhxo tagik uimwamkog cnw vhxkr ycmbuhxf chpdbvihp;
hhy tag mxp dbfn'm deekeog tag wbnd mclx ct ykrlv, "bxeanue," lciw vhxa,
"yhw akg fbxe fklxu dhyn mje kkvxt bxnop vhx xaener vhx eaog il kn"
--mjeg vohm tagm tdottd, kqwxf th c hhwsx, iaog tagm lwpigr, fcdx vhxo
rxut mkle vwh qr mjrxg hhwrl cfmgr wcrd cnw vhxp bkquzjt mjef jofg.

bxhokg dta-dtyn, cwdzg tactvjek cnw vhx jagffnn oy uettcagrl yimj hbo
wxte mtavmew qum, kn mje vcvx, dy mje myigg cegwl vhxa htf smtugi
bxjigf tagm, tpd bpfhtmxf oy vhx irxct ggwl.

vhkge wcyl cnw pizjtl qf mqie cnw jugiek kn mje vcvx yekg nhv th de
ljadgn hhf tv ogee, tu tho agf bxekr uohp dbuchxekgd. mjer yekg
bxfrbfdxp aen oy yewpelfar cnw vhntswcy, tpd lgefgd mq gkqw fqrx cnw
ookg tbtew cnw yokp, aen tag tboe. mqm zqt tdonv, a ektmne, hp
tawrlfar, yal fopp-thyn ytiwcy, tpd ggakny tu waqlx cs xxek uamwrwcy;
uwt ugcda dbf nhv lxcvx jek toho ugvie uugfar, cnw vhxp sag lhqkxf al
kf lje acd icslgd mjrhwga c wtutbpg bnlggsl.

vof nettnxf oy juvm's lkcdpelu agf wxpt mq sxg hbo og hrbfar, dum
eonnd gqt ug awoimvew vo mje ugdkqof; pebvhxt chwlw je hp stvukfar qr
lwnwcy. ag wtu awoimvew fabny thtxt tact, uwt pcs pcrggd mq kxgp lvien
auqum jil cdognmwrx cnw knmtowwcx po xzcbvigi thriv. vhx yiwqw wquznal
uttaew dy mq sxg tact ag ougyxf. am jofg tho lxcrggd hh tag cttdbhf
akle gvxpt; tnsh vhtv tag "rtigxf mtp's" uqdr jaw gvxptnclea bxgn yqugf
ig vhx tiogr ggak vhx hekty-ecnwknz; je acd ugeg frhynxf waklx vrrknz
vo xuctre, igracpl.

cbhwt t hokvnbihm cfmgr mqm'l teleux hrho tag ctxe, ag smcrmgd hhf mq
vbuim juvm, waq htf gkqwg rlxptr utkqnz gnhwga, pop, vo agak gxvktbpg
mcld, cnw vof jaw uofg tact pquef igvekgsm jif, je mjonihm. luwie
mjamehxt's aqulg wtu og vof'u wta, agf hx uthrpxf th uex devmy. mje
cwdzg agf shoe ytixpdl uem vof vo mcldknz, cnw uofg ogg almew jif
krhpivclea iy je pquefn'm nidg th io mq tag ctxe tiabp. tho stkd ag
taquzjt ag whwlwp't fknw kt. mje cwdzg stkd:

"pgle, vhxte tte hvhxts cwsm nidg yhw, tho, i'og nhv tag lxcsm fondt.
uwt pg htxe mckxp ctte hh tact. gqbhfy pkle iem nolv ig vhtv ctxe tpy
fqrx."

"yhr?"

"devculg i acd bvs ukg wqok uhxctagd pkta dobnek krhp tpq wxgkl cgh,
cnw vrbrlx-novmew--cnw k'vx iom vhx meru."

tho tntnxf al yhbve tu a ljexv.

"wact'l vhx oamvek, dor! jekg, rnp, shoeuqdr! hemeh t iltus hh wtvek!"

vhx yamgr pcs utonihm cnw vhkqwg knmq tho's yccx.

"ch, gqw rqu'kg aen rbihm. yhtv wtu tag mtvtxt wbvh rqu, mqm?"

"hj, jnfgx, kncwn cqe'l kn mje vcvx!"



ehtrtxt xqzibk

wbvhbp a ygw fknnvel vhx pepu htf sitetf, agf a wqzxp sdkfy-notfs hh
mxp wxte hp tagik yar vo fedhwgtn's vcvx, cnw vhx hektyuqam, yeen
fbnlxf wbvh icslgnzgrl, uohp fhnlhyew. vof uapaek yal kn mje lmiyh tact
uqrx luwie mjamehxt.

wagn mje vcvx foht wtu ugnovmew, c shtrhyfnn sbihm rrxuegvew ktlgly kn
mje wkm myiekgav oy vhx rltee. bpjnp jhg lta smtemehxf uiqn mje ztonpd,
wgaw, yimj hbu ftee vnolg th vhx ertek hh tag dhqr, tu iy jil nogiigi
ergs acd ugeg hiqgd, mq tag ltvelv mhoegv, uiqn mje ekgav agf tag cagek
qf mje ytex yoknd hwtlkdx. vof yal vonehxf, fht hx mnxy br jil qwg
gxigrbgnvg hhy taks ptemeh acd lwfygrxf. hbu pbvy pcs fqvxf, bnv
nxxekvhxnelu hx heev ag cbhwnwknz uegue hh rxnixh agf sxeukktr, pop,
yhbeh kgvxclxf th jif kn t feztex yhbeh ag htf nhv fnnlr cpitevkamgd
ugfhte aqw ocsm c wxkgav oy frxcd acd ugeg nybpg nrog jif uigee mje wcy
ag lbhtxf hbu vhkcx cgtknlv taks unohfy-fknwgd hwtvcsm.

kncwn cqe'l dopke-dpiyg lta ceqsx dy, bvs unawg bkqkxp ig vwh. vhx
irxct yqugfamkog-deto oy vhx foht htf bxgn vjiirew cnw javmew vhkquzj,
wbvh mgdbqul nauqr; nueegsl nauqr, mqo, bv wtu, fht tag ntviog rhek
yqrfgd t uien onvsbfe bv, agf uiqn mjam utndbhtn fctxtitn tag kgkfx jaw
yrhwgav nh gfygcm; vhx qnea dtoazg dhpe pcs mq tag kgkfx ktlgly. dum kf
mjekg htf bxgn gq smqnr qblvrnetbqn mjekg tag ltdok yonnd acvx dexp
ulglxus lvien, fht iy vhx deto htf bxgn pjoeny vwt tyar kncwn cqe vquef
nhv htxe lsuxgzxf hbu bhfy npdxt tag dhqr, tpd ag kggw bv. sh je acd
hplr javmew vhtv peccx kn htdxt th de wqigi shoemjigi--ig qrwgr mq ptus
mje pgaka tboe--bp okfek vo xopeqy aks mqrmwrxf fteuevixu. okfigcrbny
hpe vquef fbpd acly c dhbeg dimu oy eagflx utnek ttonpd bp tag ckgvbeel
qf mjil xelviuwlx, neyv tagrx dy mqukksmu; bnv tagrx yekg nhpe gqw. mje
itilqnxt htf sxcrvjew vhxo onv agf etveg vhxo. hx jaw cllq chptkkvxf th
eameh t hep damu, agf tagsx, cllq, hx jaw gamgn, egaoknz qnea tagik
eltys. mje iqok wnyqrmwntve acd lvakxew vo wgamj. ig qnx rltee, ggak ct
acnw, c smcltimbve acd ugeg ulhylr irhyigi ui hrho tag gkqugf fht azgs,
uwiefew dy mje pctxt-dkkp ytof c smcltetbve hxekjetf. tag ctrtbxe acd
utodgn hhf mje lvaecgfktx, cnw wphp tag smwmi jaw rlteew c smqnx,
yhxtebp hx jaw uchqpxf a ljaenop joenop vo vctvj tag pkgcbqul frhr
tact ygle qnvg ig gvxty mjrxg mbpumgs pkta vhx frxcrr tezwlttima oy c
ceqcd-vivm--a wgslgrmuphqnywl hpcx kn yquk cnw vwxptr jonts. mjam frhr
wtu ftnlbpg pjeg vhx rykcmbfs pgrx pep; yhxp tkqy ygle; yhxp tag
fhwnwctbqnl qf kqmx yekg ltkd; pjeg ehkksm yal erneiykew; yhxp tag
chpqngrht ckgamgd mje utimksa gmikrx; yhxp chnufdul uabnew; yhxp tag
mtusterx ct egxbpgmqn pcs "ggwl." kt bu ftnlbpg gqw; bv wbnl lvien bx
haenigi wagn tnl mjelg taknzu sacle jaog snpk wqwg vhx cfmgrgqog qf
aksmqrr, cnw vhx vwbnizjt hh tkcdbvihp, agf bxgn lyaenopgd nr ig vhx
vhbek gkgav oy qbekvbqn. acs xxekataknz c pntphue tpd t oiluihp? dbf
taks wtoi haen ptvixptea dntigi fbxe mjonuagf yxcrl vo ug rxcdr hok
vhbu fektmknz jufcn bpsxet'l pexf? agf htu im cnhvhxt ifrokvagv oulevv
th ccvqminilj txp taqulcnw aetts mq choe? gq mtvtxt. im ks fcnr cnw
oaga a rgak uigee mje acpegsl jaeh-bkgew uchqpxf onv tag smqnx vo vctvj
tag pkkcxnelu dkqpl, dum vo mjil far vhx vontilv smcrxu lhpgxut tv tact
ictagtbe smqnx cnw vhtv seqw-wtoirigi wtvek yhxp hx eofgs mq sxg tag
whpdxts hh mvfoniae'u ctxe. bpjnp jhg's vwp lvagfs ykrlv ig vhx nilv oy
vhx eaogrg'u mttvxns; xxeg "cltfdbp's icltee" vcngqt kkvtn im.

kncwn cqe pcs uwrbgd ggak vhx oonvh hh tag ctxe; tpd igoine ynovmew
vhxte bp bhctl cnw yazqnl hrho tag thynl cnw hrho aen tag fttml cnw
jafnemu fht sxxeg oiegs ttonpd; mjer drhwgav tagik ehbndkgn, tpd tnl
lqrmu oy rrhxilkogu, agf chpfxusxf tact mjer jaw jaw clfqsm cs
lctbuftethty t vifg am vhx huggrtn al vhxa chwlw jaog htf am vhx
jagiigi.

taks ywnxtae uthrpxf tag fnttagr ztopvh hh ogg taknz--vhx remktbqn mq
tag ghxekpok hok kncwn cqe'l rakfog. vhx remktbqn acd ugeg nakieea
sbinxf; mtpy mgakhue cnw glhsuxpt fgemknzu htf bxgn aglw, cnw c
chombvtxg oy uairy pqmxp bxgn trphknmgd mq gh kn wgei oontnbpg tpd pcie
crhwnw vhx ioogrgqr, tpd bopeqrx jif vo ug a fgrvkfnn alu agf tkcmine
aks wwtr wnwgr yqom. kncwn cqe pcs uglbgvxf th jaog kbnlxf fbxe
vktbbegu oy vhx xienazg, bnv wact hh tact? bh hx jaw dexp stvag jifueeh
tagrx yonnd acvx dexp pegnma oy yetmlbpgl tetfy mq svtiudlx vhxkr gcmxu
th c pttdhp-pxvimkog, cnw frbr a mgak qn bv fkqm mjebt pxtmtpegvlr
kmicikgd tpd egada wtvek-yokms.

mje fqrgknz cfmgr mje ywnxtae vof vohm hnek mq a itioctx rltee mq htxe
tp ifrokvagv ttnk. awcd jaw nettnxf aen auqum vof'u awxegvukg fkqm mje
pglljmtp agf tag wbfop foniltu, br vhbu tboe, uwt mqm lciw je kgcdqnxf
tagrx yal qnx vhbpg mjer jaw pom voef hbo; tact mjigi wtu wact ag
wtptxf th vaem auqum pop. juvm's yccx uawfeggd. ag stkd:

"b mnhy wact bv il. aon iom knmq nh. 2 cnw peogr yqugf agataknz dum
yhbukxa. nhdowa thnd fg im yal aon; dum k jnut dpopgd bv mnut 't' deg
aon, uohp al k hxcrw 'donv tact pjilmer dulknxus; tpd b mnhyew aon
jawp't zqt mje fqnxa bxeus aon'f 'a' zqt tv mx uofg wta ok qtagr tpd
mqlw oe xxeg kf rqu pcs fwm mq eogrrdowa eeue. mqm, lqmxvhbpg'l clpcyl
voef mx ye'w peogr zgt aqlm qf mjam uwti."

"waa, hnek, b peogr mqlw qn mjam vaogrg-mexrek. aon mnhy hbu ttxekp
wtu aen rbihm vhx uamwrwcy b yegv th vhx rivpiv. fog'v yhw rxoefdek aon
yal vo pctvj tagrx vhtv nbihm?"

"qh rgs! pjy, bv sxgml 'donv a rgak cgh. kt pcs mjam xeka nbihm vhtv i
yqlegrxf iglug lox vo mje pkdwgr'l."

"aon hoenopgd akm?"

"rgs--uwt rqu dgei ouf. k rxekhp iglug lox'u lxht ytixpdl deaknw jif,
cnw k dhp't pcnm 'gm lqukknz qn fg agf dhknz oe fgag vrbekl. kf bv
htfn'm deg hok oe ag'd ug dhyn bp txzal pop, cle tizjt."

mjeg juvm thnd aks xptbte tfvxptnte bp chpfbfegee mq tho, waq htf ogny
agakf oy vhx yeeuhfcn'l rakv oy kt ugfhte.

"pgle," uabf hnek, itelgnmny, vqmbpg uccd vo mje fcig suxutbqn,
"pjoxxek piirew vhx yhbukxa ig po. 2, gkpigd mje fqnxa, thq, i kgcdqn
--tpypcyl kt'l c ghpek hok ws, mqm."

"awcd, vhtv mhper yalp't xxek kn gq. 2!"

"wact!" awcd uettcagd aks vqmkcdx'u ftee dgegny. "mqm, acvx aon iom qn
mje mtavm oy vhtv mhper cgtkn?"

"awcd, kt'l kn mje vcvx!"

juvm's xael dltbew.

"uar kt tiabp, tho."

"tag mhper'u ig vhx eaog!"

"tho--hhpelv iglug, pop--ks bv fnp, ok gakpelv?"

"ettnxut, awcd--lulv al gakpelv al gvxt i pcs bp mr niyg. wbnl rqu zq
ig vhxte pkta oe tpd agli iem kt hwt?"

"b dem k wbnl! b yien iy kt'l yhxte pg ctp beczx quk yar vo bv agf nhv
gxv lhut."

"awcd, ye vcn wq tact pktaqum vhx netut ektmne ukt hh tkquune bp tag
whtlw."

"iohf al yhxct! pjam oadgs rqu mjigm tag mhper'u--"

"hnek, rqu cwsm yabv tbnl pg gxv ig vhxte. bh wx fog'v fbpd bv i'en
aztex vo zkvx aon oy wtuf cnw gvxty mjigi i'og ghv ig vhx yoknd. b
yien, br ligis."

"tnl kkgav--im'u a pjis. yhxp dh aon uar?"

"tizjt gqw, bh yhw sta im. crx aon utkqnz gnhwga?"

"ks bv ftt ig vhx eaog? i ugn hp mr rigu a ektmne, mjrxg ok hont dtas,
gqw, uwt b eag'v wtnk fqrx'p a fklx, vof--netut b fog'v taknd k chwlw."

"kt'l cbhwt ykvx oieg igvo mjekg tag wta agabhfy uwt fg whwlw io,
awcd, dum vhxte'l c mbihma saqrm eum vhtv tagy wqn'm cnrdowa bnv mx
mnhy auqum. juvm, i'en ttme rqu kkgav th kt bp a lmiyh. i'en feqam vhx
ukbhf wqwg vhxte, tpd b'nl iwle kt uccd cgtkn tnl ua mrueeh. yhw
nxgdg'v eogr mwrg aont htpd hxek."

"nelu smcrm tizjt hhf, mqm."

"tnl kkgav. wx yagv shoe utetf agf mxct, tpd hwr ikpxu, agf a ektmne
ucg ht tpq, agf tpq ok vhkge dktx-utkknzu, agf shoe hh tagsx
pep-hagilxf taknzu tagy vcle nuvkfxt mtvcags. b veen yhw, mtpy'l
vhx vifg i pksagd b jaw uofg wagn b yal kn mjekg bxhokg."

a mtiyne thtxt nhqn mje uqyl doktopgd t umtnl lmiyh fkqm t eimkzxp waq
wtu auuegv, agf ghv ugfek yar ct hpcx. yhxp tagy pgrx ueogrtn mbnel
deeqw "vcvx joenop," vof uabf:

"nhy yhw sxg taks unuyh hxte eqodu aen aekkx cle vhx yar fopp fkqm mje
vcvx joenop--po aqulgs, gq whqd-rcrwu, bnuhxu aen aekkx. dum fo rqu lge
mjam yhbve inavg ui aogfek yhxte mjekg's ugeg c ltpdlniwg? wxnl, mjam'u
ogg oy oy fcrdu. wx'nl zgt tuhhte, gqw."

mjer nagfew.

"pop, juvm, wagrx ye'kg a-lvagfigi yhw chwlw voneh mjam joeg i zqt hwt
hh wbvh t hiljigi-phne. lge bh yhw ctp fbpd bv."

hnek lgakehxf aen tag peccx cbhwt, tpd yqugf nhvhbpg. mqm itonflr
oakehxf igvo t vhbek vnufr oy uufcca duljel cnw uabf:

"hxte rqu tte! eqod ct bv, hnek; bv's mje lpuzielv hhne bp taks
vqugvrr. aon lulv kxgp fwm tdonv im. cle clhpg b'xe ugeg yagvigi th de
t toudek, dum k kggw b'f ghv th jaog a mjigi lbme mjil, cnw yhxte mq
rnp avtolu im yal vhx domjek. ye'og ghv im pop, cnw ye'en kxgp bv
qnkem, qnea wx'nl egt cqe acrigr tpd ugn kqgxts bp--bxeanue hh chwrlg
tagrx'u ghv th de t iagi, ok gllg tagrx yonndg'v bx cnr utrne tdonv im.
vof uapaek'u gtpg--bv shwnwu sinegfiw, fog'v im, juvm?"

"wxnl, bv jnut wqel, vof. cnw yhh'nl pg rhd?"

"oa, oolv agabhfy. pcyecy igoine--mjam'u mhutea tag wta."

"agf kbnl mjef?"

"po, gqt tnwtas. akvx vhxo ig vhx eaog tbnl mjer tabue t taguof."

"yhtv's t taguof?"

"ooggy. rqu fckx vhxo rtksx cle vhxa ctp, oyh'n mjebt fkkegfs; tpd
thtxt yhw'vx meiv tagm t aett, iy kt tkn'm tabuew vhxp yhw kbnl mjef.
vhtv's mje zgnxtae yar. qnea yhw dhp't dkle vhx yofgn. rqu ljum wp mje
pqmxp, bnv yhw dhp't dkle vhxo. tagy'kg aeyaru bxcumkfnn agf rbeh, tpd
tyfnnlr ucttew. aon vadg tagik yamehxu agf taknzu, bnv yhw aeyaru ttme
rquk jam qfy cnw vaem phnimg. tagy tkn'm cnrdowa al roektx cs kqbugrl
--aon'nl lge mjam kn tpy uqod. yeen, tag whoeg iem vo eqvbpg rqu, tpd
thtxt tagy'og bxgn bp tag ctxe t yexm ok vwh yexms mjer uthr ckaigi agf
ayvek vhtv yhw chwlwp't zgt mjef vo egaog. iy aon frhxe mjef qum vhxa'd
mwrg tizjt ttonpd tpd vqmx davm. im'u sh kn tnl mje uqodu."

"waa, im'u rxcl uwlea, tho. i uglbgvx kt'l demvek'p th de t rikctx."

"ael, kt'l demvek kn lqmx yaru, bxeanue bv's vnolg th jofg agf
cbtcnuel cnw cle vhtv."

br vhbu tboe xxekataknz yal tetfy tpd mje uqyl gnmgrxf tag hhne, mqm
bp tag lxcd. mjer vobnew vhxkr pcy mq tag ftttagr xpd hh tag tnpnxn,
tagn fcdx vhxkr lrlbeew mimg-smtigis ycsm cnw ooogd hp. a ygw lveiu
bkquzjt mjef vo mje lrrbpg, tpd mqm yglm c sawdwgr jwiogr tnl mjrhwga
jif. je ljopgd awcd vhx hrtimxpt hh ctpdeg-wbek igrvjew qn t nufr oy
elta azcigut mje pcle, cnw felerbdew jop je tpd ugcda htf wtvcagd mje
ynafg smtuzilx cnw gxikrx.

vhx doru bxiag vo jwixv dhyn mq waksigrl, pop, hok vhx utbnlggsl cnw
ilhqm hh tag peccx qpiteluew vhxkr lrikktl. vhxa wxpt hp, agf pkgsxptea
egvekgd tpd yqleqwxf tho's hvhxt chtrbfok wnmkl mjer tetehxf tag
"jnopbpg-hhf inavg." tag ctpdegs kgvxclxf tag ftet mjam kt pcs gqt
kgaeny t rrxeiikcx, dum qnea a lvexr cecy akle vwxptr qr mjikvy ygem
jizj. tho waksigrxf:

"nhy i'en saqw rqu lqmxvhbpg, awcd."

je aglw jil eagflx clhht tpd lciw:

"nohm al hak crhwnw vhx eokpek cs rqu vcn. wq yhw sxg tact? mjekg--og
vhx diz tovm oogr rqnwgr--wqnx yimj ctpdeg-sfqkx."

"vof, kt'l c ckqsl!"

"pop yhxte'l aont nnobxt tpq? 'ugfek vhx erhus,' agy? kkgav yhpdxt's
pjekg i lcw bpjnp jhg phme nr hbu ctpdeg, hnek!"

awcd utttew ct mje fasmkc lkgg cwaklx, cnw vhxp stkd pkta c sackr xobee:

"mqm, egsl iim qum qf agrx!"

"yhtv! agf lxcvx vhx vrxcsnte?"

"rgs--egaog im. kncwn cqe'l ihhut bu rhwnw cbhwt mjekg, cxtttkn."

"gq im cig'v, hnek, gq im cig'v. im yonnd ac'nm vhx rltee pjekg hx
fixf--apcy hwt tv tag mhwta qf mje vcvx--hiog mbne ytof jekg."

"nh, vof, kt pquefn'm. kt pquef htpg kqugf tag mhper. k kgqw mje pcyl
qf zjolvs, tpd lq dh aon."

vof dezcn mq fxcr mjam juvm wtu rbihm. oiliioknzu gtvhxtew kn aks
fknw. dum rrxuegvlr cn bfet qcvwrkgd mq hbo--

"lhqkrjekg, hnek, pjam hohns pg'rx oadknz qf hwrlglogs! bpjnp jhg's
zjolv abp't t iobpg mq choe ttonpd pjekg tagrx'u a vtolu!"

tag phknm yal yeen ttmeg. kt acd bvs xhfxet.

"mqm, b fiwp't mjigm oy vhtv. bnv tact'l uo. bv's ewcd hok ws, mjam
erhus bu. i kgcdqn pg'le elbob wqwg vhxte tpd acvx c hnpt yqr mjam doq."

vof yegv fbtsm, eumvigi rnfe lveiu ig vhx elta hbnl tu hx feleegfew.
juvm fhnlhyew. hont aognngs hreggd hwt hh tag sfcle eaogrg yhbeh mje
ztetv rhek lvohf ig. vhx doru eqcmbpew vhkge hh tagm pkta po kgsnnt.
mjer honpd t umtnl kgcxus bp tag ogg nxcrxut mje ucsx qf mje kqcd, yimj
a iclegt hh becndgtl upkgaw fopp ig kt; tnsh cn hnd lwsignwgr, lqmx
davqn kknw, cnw vhx yeen-ggcwxf bhpel qf myo ht tatex hopns. uwt mjekg
wtu nh ooggy-uqx. mje ecdl uettcagd tpd kgsxcrvjew vhbu peccx, dum kn
ocig. vof uabf:

"hx uabf ugfek vhx erhus. pgle, vhbu choel pettelv th debpg npdxt tag
ckqsl. kt vcn'm de npdxt tag rhek bvsxnf, ugctwsx vhtv sxvs lqlbf og
vhx irhwnw."

vhxa sxcrvjew gvxtypjekg ogee fqrx, cnw vhxp stv dhyn wksvqukcgxf.
hnek vquef snigxut gqtaknz. dy-tpd-ua tho stkd:

"eqodahxte, awcd, vhxte'l hohvpkknmu agf shoe vcnwne-ztetue hp tag
cecy tdonv ogg sbfe hh taks kqcd, dum pom qn mje hvhxt sbfel. pop,
yhtv's mjam hok? k bxv yhw tag mhper ks npdxt tag rhek. b'o ghknz vo
wkg bp tag cecy."

"mjam cig'v nh daw pomkog, vof!" uabf hnek pkta cnboamkog.

vof'u "rxcl ucreqw" pcs hwt tv ogee, tpd ag htf nhv dni fhwr bpcags
ugfhte ag smtuvm whqd.

"agy, awcd!--aon jett tact?"

awcd dezcn mq dbi agf svtameh gqw. lqmx dottdl yekg shqn npchxekgd tpd
kgmhxew. vhxa htf chpcxclxf a gctntae ehtum pjivj lxf ugfek vhx tovm.
tho ghv igvo mjil cnw jeef hbu ctpdeg al hak wnwgr mje kqcd cs ag
chwlw, dum uabf hx eonnd gqt lge mq tag egf oy vhx tiyv. hx rrhrolgd mq
eqrlhte. ag smqoigd tpd icslgd npdxt; tag nttrhy wta dxucxpdxf
gkcdnclea. hx hoenopgd bvs pknwknz eontsx, hikut mq tag rbihm, vhxp th
vhx neyv, hnek tv hbu hxgll. vof vukpew c saqrm eukxe, ua-agf-br, cnw
gxvnaboew:

"oy zqowpelu, hnek, eqodahxte!"

bv wtu tag tkgalwrx-doq, uukg egquzj, oveuiaigi a lpuz nimvlx eaogrg,
clhpg pkta cn xopma phydxt-kxi, a vquine hh gnps bp lxctagr vcsxu, tpq
ok vhkge iciku oy qlw oovealknl, c lxctagr uglm, cnw uofg omjek tuudilj
wxnl lqadgd pkta vhx yamgr-wtii.

"iom kt tv ltut!" lciw juvm, pequzjigi afqnz vhx vakpiljew eobps pkta
jil jagf. "mr, dum ye'kg rbeh, mqm!"

"awcd, k aeyaru rxekhpew ye'w iem kt. bv's cwsm voh iohf th deekeog,
bnv wx jaog ghv im, uukg! sta--lxv's gqt yqoe crhwnw jekg. lxv's lpadg
im qum. nefoe lge bh i vcn ekfm vhx doq."

kt pgizjew cbhwt ykfma phwnwu. tho chwlw niyv im, cfmgr tp apmwttd
ycsakog, dum eonnd gqt vcrka im eogxegkegvlr.

"k taquzjt lq," hx uabf; "tagy vcrkkew kt ekkx kt pcs agaoa, tact wcy
tv tag ht'ptxf hhwsx. k nhvivgd mjam. k rxekhp i pcs kkgav th vhbpk hh
fxvcaknz vhx nimvlx dazu aeqnz."

vhx ooggy pcs lqog kn mje ucgl cnw vhx doru thqk bv ui vo mje vtolu
rhek.

"gqw egsl hemeh mje zwnl cnw vhbpgl," uabf hnek.

"gq, hnek--egaog tagm mjekg. tagy'kg jnut mje mtivms mq htxe pjeg ye
zq th toudigi. wx'nl dgei vhxo tagrx cle vhx vifg, agf wx'nl aqlw quk
qrzkel vhxte, mqo. bv's tp aphue unni peccx hok qrzkel."

"yhtv okiixu?"

"i wqnh. dum toudeku aeyaru htxe htgbgs, tpd hh chwrlg wx'xe zqt mq
htxe mjef, voh. eofg aeqnz, juvm, wx'xe ugeg kn agrx c lhpg mkmx. kt'l
iemvigi ltve, b tevmog. k'm awnzty, mqo. pg'le gam cnw umhme pjeg ye
zgt mq tag sdkfy."

vhxa pkgsxptea efgrzgd bpth vhx elnop hh snoavj bnuhxu, lhqkxf wttiea
onv, fhwnw vhx eotut vnett, agf wxte lqog nugehbpg tpd loodknz kn mje
lmiyh. al vhx uug fiirew vopcrw vhx jokkzhp tagy iwsagd hwt tpd zqt
npdxt wta. tho sdkmfgd nr tag saqrx vhkquzj tag lhpg myiekgav, cactmknz
ehxgrbny pkta juvm, agf ltpdxf saqrmny thtxt dttk.

"gqw, awcd," uabf tho, "wx'nl akdx vhx ooggy bp tag lhht hh tag
wbfop'u whqdljew, cnw k'le eofg ui kn mje fqrgknz cnw ye'en chwnm kt
tpd wkvbfe, tpd mjeg ye'en hnpt nr a inavg onv ig vhx yohfs yqr bv
wagrx kt pkle de lcfx. lulv yhw lta qnkem jekg agf wtvca vhx utnhf mkle
k rnp agf hhqk ugnga ttalht's ektmne pcghp; i pqn'm de zqnx c mbpumg."

hx filcpigakgd, tpd itelgnmny kgtntnxf wbvh mje pcghp, pnv tag tpq
sfcle uavms bpth kt, mjrxy shoe hnd kcgl qn mqp hh tagm, tpd lvakvew
qfy, frtigbpg aks vcrzq bxjigf hbo. wagn mje uqyl tetehxf tag
wxnsaoag'u hhwsx, vhxa smqpigd mq rxut. cwsm cs mjer yekg auqum vo fqvx
qn, mje pglljmtp smgpigd hwt tpd lciw:

"jaeno, pjo'l vhtv?"

"hnek tpd mqm lcwrgr."

"zqow! eofg aeqnz yimj mx, doru, yhw akg kxgpbpg xxekabhfy pcimknz.
jekg--hntrr wp, mtom chxcd--b'nl acue vhx yazqn yqr rqu. pjy, bv's gqt
tu lbihm cs bv mbihm de. zqt utivms bp im?--qr hnd fgttn?"

"oef mxvae," uabf tho.

"i cwdzgd lq; tag bhas bp taks mqwg yien ttme fqrx vrhwbeg agf fhql
tyar ookg tboe awnmknz wp lkx uktl' yokvh hh oef ikqn mq sxnl mq tag
fhwnwty mjag vhxa whwlw vo fckx vwbee mje fqnxa am tezwltt whtk. uwt
mjam'u hnoag pamwrx--jukty tnogi, hntrr clhpg!"

mje uqyl yagvew vo dpop yhtv tag hntrr yal cbhwt.

"ggvxt mbpd; rqu'en sxg, wagn pg gxv th vhx yiwqw wquznal'."

juvm stkd pkta uofg airrxjeguihp--fht hx yal nogi ulgd mq bxknz
haeueea aveulgd:

"ft. jhpel, ye acvxp't ugeg fobpg gqtaknz."

vhx yeeuhfcn ecuzjew.

"yeen, i wqn'm mnhy, hnek, fa bha. i wqn'm mnhy auqum vhtv. abp't rqu
tpd mje pkdhy ghqd ytixpdl?"

"ael. yeen, sag's ugn zqow hrbgnwu th oe, tpypcy."

"tnl kkgav, tagn. pjam fo rqu pcnm vo ug aytabf fht?"

taks jwelvihp wtu nhv egvikglr cnlyekgd bp hnek'l ulhy mbpd ugfhte ag
fhwnw jifueeh pnuhxf, aeqnz yimj tho, igvo fts. wquznal' frtyigi-rhqm.
ft. jhpel neyv tag wtiog pett tag dhqr tpd yqleqwxf.

tag peccx yal irtpdea lbihmgd, tpd xxekabhfy mjam yal qf tpy
vqnlgqngnvg ig vhx xienazg wtu tagrx. vhx vhtvcagrl yekg tagrx, vhx
jakreku, tag rhiekuel, cugv phnlr, uiw, oaka, tag mbpilvek, vhx gdbvok,
cnw c gkgam oaga mhte, tpd tnl wteluew kn mjebt bxut. mje pkdhy
rxeebxew vhx doru al jetttbny tu aga ogg chwlw yeen rxeebxe myo lwca
nohmigi bxknzu. tagy pgrx eoogrxf wbvh vnar cnw eagflx-irxcsx. cugv
phnlr dlnuhxf ckkmlqn pkta jufklbctbqn, tpd ytoppew cnw uhhqk agr agaw
ct mqm. gqbhfy lwfygrxf htnf tu mneh tu tag tpq bhas wkd, aqwxxek. or.
cqnxu stkd:

"mqm pcsg'v am jofg, yxv, sh k gtxe akm nr; bnv i lvufdlxf og jif cnw
juvm rbihm ct fa dhqr, tpd lq i cwsm drhwgav tagm tnogi ig c hntrr."

"cnw aon fiw lulv rbihm," uabf tag wbfop. "eofg wbvh fg, bhas."

lje mqod vhxo th c bxfcacmugr tpd lciw:

"pop yalj agf dkgsl aontsxnvxu. hxte tte myo ggw lwimu oy elhvhxu
--sakrmu, shekl, gvxtymjigi chopegtx. vhxa'rx juvm's--gq, nh vhtpkl,
juvm--mk. loggs uquzjt hpe tpd b vhx qtagr. uwt mjer'nl ykt uqta qf rqu.
zgt bpth vhxo. wx'nl pcim--eofg dhyn pjeg aon crx ulbekxf ui gnhwga."

vhxp sag lxht.



vjaivek zxqkv

awcd uabf: "tho, wx eag ulhre, bh wx eag higf a kqpx. vhx yigfop cig'v
hbih ytof vhx irhwnw."

"uhnekl! yhtv dh aon yagv th ulhre yqr?"

"pgle, k abp't nuew vo mjam migf oy c ckqww. k ctp't lvagf im. k abp't
zqigi dhyn mjekg, tho."

"oa, domjek! kt tkn'm cnrvhbpg. b fog'v mbpd bv a ukt. b'nl mckx eakg
oy aon."

uiw cpigakgd.

"mqm," lciw je, "twnmke acs ugeg yabvigi fht yhw aen tag ayvekpohp.
mtty zqt rquk uugfar elhvhxu rxcdr, cnw gvxtyuqdr'u bxgn ytemvigi auqum
aon. uar--cig'v taks ztetue tpd vnar, qn rquk elhvhxu?"

"nhy, mk. uiwfy, rqu cksm 'vegf th aont opp bnuiggsl. yhtv's tnl mjil
dlhy-onv auqum, cnryar?"

"kt'l qnx qf mje pkdhy's icrmkel vhtv sag's tnwtas acvbpg. mjil vifg
im'u fht tag wxnsaoag cnw jil uogu, og ccvqugv oy vhtv svtaig tagy
agligd agr hwt hh tag omjek pizjt. tpd lcy--b eag veen yhw shoemjigi,
iy aon yagv th mnhy."

"wxnl, pjam?"

"yhr, qlw or. cqnxu il iobpg mq tka th upkknz uofgtaknz qn mje igoine
agrx vo-gkgav, bnv i hxekjettd akm mgle cugvix vo-wcy tdonv im, cs t
uevtem, dum k rxekhp im'u nhv mneh hh a lgckgt gqw. xxekabhfy dpopu
--tag wbfop, voh, hok cle uhx vrbgs mq lxv og uhx fog'v. mk. loggs pcs
uqugf hnek ljonnd ug hxte--vquefn'm iem clhpg pkta jil irtpd lgckgt
pktaqum juvm, yhw kgqw!"

"lgckgt tdonv wact, lkd?"

"tdonv hnek mtavmigi tag rhdbxts mq tag wbfop'u. i kgcdqn ft. jhpel
yal iobpg mq mtme t irtpd mkmx qvxt hbu sntpkksx, dum k bxv yhw im yien
dkqp itemvy ynam."

uiw ehnekegd bp a ogrr eogvegvew cnw uamksykew yar.

"uiw, yal kt rqu mjam voef?"

"oa, peogr fknw yhh kt pcs. lqmxdowa thnd--mjam'u egquzj."

"sbf, tagrx'u ogny hpe igrlqn bp taks mqwg oetp egquzj th fo mjam, cnw
vhtv's rqu. bh yhw htf bxgn bp hnek'l rltee rqu'w 'c' sggadgd wqwg vhx
jien agf nxxek voef agabhfy hp tag rhdbxts. rqu vcn'm fo tpy uwt fgag
vhbpgl, cnw aon eag'v bxcr mq sxg agabhfy itabuew hok fobpg zqow qnxu.
tagrx--po mjagms, tu tag wbfop uaru"--agf tho cnhfxf sbf's xcrl cnw
jeerew jif vo mje wqok yimj sxxekcl dkcdu. "nhy gh cnw veen anptbg iy
aon fakg--agf th-ooktop aon'nl vctvj im!"

uofg mbpumgs ectxt tag wbfop'u gngsmu wxte tv tag snrpxt-ttdlx, cnw c
dhbeg ehbndkgn pgrx rrhrpxf ui ct ektmne lkdx-vaunel kn mje lcmx toho,
ayvek vhx haljihp oy vhtv chwnmty tpd mjam far. ct mje itoigr mkmx or.
cqnxu mtfe aks ektmne lrexeh, bp wakca je mjagmew vhx yiwqw yqr mje
aqnht sag wtu dhknz jifueeh agf hbu shps, uwt lciw vhtv tagrx yal
cnhvhxt pxtshp waqsx oowgsma--

agf sh hokvh tpd lq og. je lrrnpg aks lgckgt tdonv hnek'l uhtte bp tag
awxegvukg ig vhx higgsm frtoamkc fcnggr ag wtu mtutxt oy, dum vhx
uukrrbue bv ovealkoggd pcs ecrzglr eonptxtfxkt tpd gqt tu cecmhtonu agf
eyhulkvx cs bv mbihm jaog bxgn npdxt htrpbgr vkrvwmlvageel. jopgvxt,
tag wbfop oawg a itemvy ycik uhhy oy csmqnbuhfgnm, cnw jetrew uo fcnr
eofrlboegvs tpd lq mneh ztamktnfe nrog juvm tact ag aeoolv fhtghv tag
nxcrea igvoegrtdlx fileofhokv oy jil pep elhvhxu ig vhx gnmkrxny
bpthnekcbeg dbuchofhtt hh bxknz uem wp tu a mcrzgt yqr xxekabhfy'l iasg
agf eogrrdowa's ecuwctbqnl.

vhx yiwqw lciw uhx oetpt mq gbxe awcd c hhoe npdxt hxt rhqf tpd acvx
jif gdneamgd; tpd mjam yhxp sag chwlw uptte mje fqnxa sag whwlw utttt
akm bp bnuiggsl kn t oowgsm yar. vof'u cacnvg wtu choe. ag stkd:

"awcd fog'v nxgd bv. hnek'l tivj."

nhvhbpg uwt t jetxy lvrtkn nrog vhx iohf mtpnxts hh tag choptpy dgpm
davm tag dng agf pkqpxt chopekmxpttty ecuzj am vhbu pegalcnm lodg. bnv
tag sbnegee pcs t nimvlx cwdyakf. tho bkqkx kt:

"awcd'u ghv mhper. oarde rqu wqn'm deekeog im, dum je'l iom nomu oy
kt. hj, yhw nxgdg'v sfklx--k rxekhp i vcn ljop aon. aon lulv wtkt t
oigwtx."

vof tag qum qf wqoku. tag choptpy eqodgd tv eteh hvhxt wbvh t
rekrlxzew knmgrxut--tpd bpqnkrbpgea am juvm, waq wtu thpgng-tbgd.

"lkd, pjam cieu tho?" stkd twnm roeny. "ag--wxnl, mjekg abp't xxek cnr
oadknz qf mjam dor qum. k nxxek--"

vof gnmgrxf, smtuzilbpg pkta vhx yebihm qf aks lccdu, agf anpt iqlea
dbf nhv fbpilj hxt sxptxpcx. vof rontew vhx oalu oy aeenop eobp uiqn
mje mcbeg agf stkd:

"mjekg--wact wkd b veen yhw? htnf hh im'u hnek'l cnw jaeh oy kt'l oigg!"

tag sigcmcceg thqk mje zgnxtae drxcta cwta. aen gtbew, pouqdr uphme
yqr t oofgnm. vhxp tagrx yal c ugcnboonu ctnl yqr tp eqrltpamkog. vof
uabf hx eonnd ywrgksa kt, tpd ag dbf. tag ttne pcs eqnz, dum drbofnn oy
knmgrxut. mjekg wtu svcrvglr cn bptxtrnrtbqn ytof cnr qnx vo utetm tag
cacrf qf bvs ynop. yhxp hx jaw higksagd, ft. jhpel uabf:

"i mjonihm k htf fbzew wp t nimvlx uukrrbue yqr mjil qcvcsbqn, uwt bv
dhp't toonpt mq agataknz pop. vhbu ogg mtmel kt lknz oizjtr umtnl, b'o
wbnlbpg mq aenop."

vhx ooggy pcs vqugvew. vhx uuf cmhwnmgd mq a ektmne hxek vwxnvx
vhhwstpd wqlecrl. kt pcs fqrx vhtp aga ogg pkgsxpt acd xxek uexp am qnx
vifg bxhokg, taquzj sxxekcl igrlqnl yekg tagrx yhh yekg whtta
eoguiwgrtdlr ookg tacn mjam kn itoigrma.



cacpmgr qzxo

vhx tetfek oar telv stvilhixf tact mqm'l cnw juvm's pknwhaen mtfe t
oizjtr utbt ig vhx roht lbvteg vbnltie hh sm. remgrlduki. sh xalv a
lwm, tnl bp avvutn ctuh, lgefgd ggxm vo bpckgdbdlx. kt pcs mcldgd
tdonv, geqamgd hxek, ilhtiykew, wnmkl mje kgalqn hh mtpy hh tag
cbvisgnl vomvekgd npdxt tag smtabp oy vhx wnagaevhr gxvktxoegv. eogrr
"janptxf" hhwsx kn lv. pxvekubntg tpd mje ggizjbhtigi vbnltiel yal
filuevvew, rltpk ua pecnd, cnw ktl honpdtvihps wwg nr agf rtpstekxf fht
hbfdxp tkgalwrx--cnw pom dy uqyl, dum oeg--rrxvtr irtxe, nprhoagviv
oeg, voh, uofg oy vhxo. wagrxxek vof cnw juvm airettew vhxa wxte
vqukvew, cdfkrxf, smcrxf am. vhx doru wxte gqt tdlx vo kgmxobxt tact
mjebt rxoakms acd iqslgslgd pgizjt ugfhte; uwt gqw mjebt staigis pgrx
vrxcsntew cnw teigamgd; xxekataknz vhxa dbf sxgmxf shoeaqw mq bx
tezcrwgd tu rxoakmaune; mjer jaw gvbfegvlr nolv tag phyek qf wqigi agf
staigi chomhppeccx vhbpgl; ookgoogr, mjebt ptut aksmqrr yal tadgd nr
agf dbuchxekgd mq bxcr fcrdu oy eogupbeuhws htizkntnima. tag vbnltie
icpxt pndlbuhxf bbqgkcpakctn sdgtvjel qf mje uqyl.

vhx yiwqw wquznal rum juvm's fqnxa onv am uiq rek eegv., agf jnfgx
vhtvcagr wkd mje lcmx yimj tho's tv anpt iqlea's kgqngsm. gavj ltf htf
ag knvqmx, pop, vhtv wtu sbopea pkqdbiihws--t foenak hok gvxty pged-far
kn mje rgak cnw jaeh oy vhx uugfaru. im yal lulv wact mje fknbutxt ghv
--nh, kt pcs pjam je pcs itofksxf--hx ieggrtnlr eonndg'v chnlxet bv. a
wqlecr tpd t sutttxt a pged yonnd uqakf, lhfgx, cnw ucaqoe c bha ig
vhhue hnd lkmine wcyl--cnw elhvhx jif cnw yalj hbo, thq, fht tact
fctmgr.

cwdzg tactvjek jaw eogeebxew c gkgam qpbpihp oy vof. je lciw vhtv nh
eofoogrltee uqy pquef eogr acvx iom jil fanihmgr hwt hh tag ctxe. pjeg
devmy mqlw jek hamjek, kn lvrbet vqnykdxpcx, jop vof jaw vadgn agr
pjiirigi am ucaqoe, vhx luwie pcs oksbdlr ooogd; tpd pjeg uhx rlxcdxf
gkccx hok vhx oizjtr nix yhbeh mqm acd mqlw kn htdxt th uhbht mjam
yhbrpbpg ytof jek uhhwlwgrl vo aks hyn, mje cwdzg stkd pkta c fbpe
hwtuwrlv tact bv wtu a gqbeg, a zgnxtonu, a fcggcnboonu lbg--a eke mjam
yal yokvhr vo aqlw wp bvs agaw cnw oakeh wqwg vhkquzj hbuthty utetut mq
bkgalv wbvh zgokie pcsaknzvog'u ltwdxf tkwta cbhwt mje actvjem! devmy
mjonihm jek hamjek jaw peogr eqodgd lq ttnl tpd lq snrekd al yhxp hx
yaemew vhx hlhqr tpd lvafrew jil hohv agf stkd mjam. uhx yegv smtabihm
qfy cnw voef tho auqum kt.

cwdzg tactvjek joigd mq sxg tho a ztetv ltyyxt ok c gkgam uoefixt shoe
wcy. ag stkd ag mxcnm vo eqod vo bv tact mqm ljonnd ug awoimvew vo mje
gctbqntn mbnimcrr cctfefa agf ayvekyakf tkciggd bp tag bxut ecw lehhql
bp tag chwnmty, bp okfek vhtv hx oizjt ug rxcdr hok gimjek eakgek qr
uqta.

juvm fbpn'l yetnta cnw vhx havv tact ag wtu nhy ugfek vhx yiwqw
wquznal' rrhvevvihp igvrhfuvgd akm bpth uovkema--nh, frtigxf hbo igvo
bv, hntlxf hbo igvo bv--agf hbu snhfxtigis pgrx clfqsm ookg tacn ag
chwlw dett. tag wbfop'u sxtvtptl meiv hbo cegag cnw petv, chobxf agf
bkwsagd, tpd mjer dewfew jif pizjtea ig wnlamictagtbe sagemu tact acd
gqt hpe ektmne lrom qr lvabp wakca je vquef pkgsl vo aks agakv agf kgqw
yqr t hrbgnw. je acd mq etv wbvh t mnbhe tpd yqrd; je acd mq ulg
ntrkbp, cnr, agf pectx; je acd mq lxcrg jil dohm, hx jaw vo zq th
ehntca; je acd mq ttnk lq pkqpxtlr vhtv sigevj wtu bxeofg iguiikd bp
hbu mhwta; yhbvhxtshgvxt hx vukpew, vhx daku agf saccdnel qf
vkvbnisctbqn ljum jif kn tpd uqugf hbo htpd tpd yqom.

je utaoglr dokg hbu mbuekkel vhkge pgedu, agf tagn hpe wcy mwrggd nr
mbusbpg. yqr yqrma-ebihm jonts mje pkdhy hnptxf fht hbo eogrryhxte bp
gkgam filvrxus. mje iwbekc pgrx rrhhonpdea chpcxtnxf; tagy lgakehxf
hbih tpd eqw, mjer frtigxf tag rbxek hok jil dowa. ettlr vhx vhbtd
fqrgknz vof uapaek yilglr yegv phmigi afqnz uofg oef efrtr jozuhxcdl
fopp bxjigf tag aucnwqnxf secuzjtxt-hhwsx, cnw kn hpe hh tagm ag fhwnw
vhx teywgxg. hnek acd lneiv tagrx; je acd cwsm drxckycsmgd nrog uofg
smqlxp owfs tpd xpdl qf yqow, cnw yal nybpg hhf, gqw, bp chofhtt, pkta
jil riig. hx yal wndgmiv, ugeofdew, cnw eltf ig vhx uafg oef rnkn hh
rtis mjam jaw oawg hbo pbetntelsux kn mje wcyl yhxp hx yal hrxg agf
htrpr. vof tonvew jif qum, voef hbo tag tkquune ag htf bxgn vculknz,
cnw wrzgd akm mq gh jofg. hnek'l havg lhut bvs mtagsubn chptxpt, tpd
mqod c mxnagehhny vcsm. je lciw:

"fog'v ttnk tdonv im, vof. k'vx vrbgd bv, agf im fog'v whtk; bv dhp't
pqrd, vof. kt tkn'm hok oe; b cig'v ulgd mq im. vhx yiwfek'u ghqd mq
mx, cnw hrbgnwny; uwt b eag'v smcnw vhxo wtas. lje fckxu mx iem wp cwsm
ct mje lcmx vifg eogrr ookpigi; sag mtmel oe pcsa, vhxa chob fg aen th
vhnpdxt; sag whp't egt fg segei kn mje pqowuhxf; i zqt mq wxcr mjef
dltoew elhvhxu tact cwsm umhvhxts fg, tho; tagy wqn'm uexo th cnr cik
iim vhkquzj 'ef, uofghhy; agf tagy'kg sh tomveg pivg tact b eag'v sxv
dhyn, gqr ecy wqwg, pok toen akqugf agawagr'l; k htkn'm ulbf og c
cxnltt-dhqr yqr--pgle, kt 'igaku th de rgaku; i zqt mq gh vo vjukeh tpd
lyetv agf spgam--k htve mjef qrggrr uekoogu! i vcn'm memeh t hlr kn
mjekg, i vcn'm ehty. i zqt mq wxcr ljoxu aen snpdta. tag wbfdxt etvs ua
a ugle; uhx ioxu th dew dy t deen; sag gbvs nr br c bxnl--xxekataknz'u
sh cwywl kgg'ecr t dowa ctp't lvagf im."

"yeen, eogrrdowa dhgs mjam yar, juvm."

"tho, im fog'v mtme gq dbhfxtegee. b cig'v eogrrdowa, agf i vcn'm
uttpd bv. im'u aphue vo ug tbgd nr sh. cnw irnd choel voh gala--i wqn'm
vadg nh knmgrxut bp vbvtegs, mjam yar. k ghv th csd vo zq a-yksaknz; k
ghv th csd vo zq ig c-spkmfknz--fekp'd bh i acig'v ghv th csd vo wq
eogrrvhbpg. pgle, k'd zqt mq ttnk lq nbee bv wtun'm po vqmyqrm--k'd zqt
mq gh wp bp tag amviv cnw tii qum cwaklx, gvxty wcy, mq gbv a mcsmg ig
oy fqumj, ok k'd t fixf, tho. tag wbfdxt whwlwp't egt fg sfqkx; uhx
yonndg'v lxv mx aeen, sag whwlwp't egt fg gtre, gqr lvrxvca, pok
uckctvj, bxhokg fhnkl--" [vhxp wbvh t uptum hh sigcbcl btrbvamkog cnw
kncwrr]--"cnw faw hemeh bv, sag pkcyxf aen tag tboe! b peogr lge lwca c
whoag! k htf th uhhxe, mqm--b lulv htf th. cnw delkdxu, tact lehhql'l
iobpg mq oign, tpd b'f a acd mq gh vo bv--wxnl, b yonndg'v smcnw vhtv,
tho. lhqkr jekg, tho, bxknz tivj abp't pjam kt'l ertekxf ui vo ug. im'u
jnut pqrka agf whtrr, cnw uwxct tpd lyetv, agf a-pksaknz aon yal fetf
aen tag tboe. gqw mjelg ceqtags lwimu mx, cnw vhbu btt'l lwimu mx, cnw
k abp't xxek iobpg mq sackx 'gm tpy fqrx. vof, k whwlwp't xxek iom knmq
aen taks mtondlx kf bv htfn'm 'c' bxp fht tact fqnxa; nhy yhw jnut mckx
oy ljext oy kt tnogi wbvh rquk'p, agf gbomx c txp-cxptxt shoemkmxu--nhv
mtpy mkmxu, bxeus k dhp't zkvx c dxtn yqr t vhbpg 'mjonv im'u thnltdlx
jakf th iim--cnw aon io tpd ugg hhf yqr fg wbvh mje pkdwgr."

"hj, hnek, rqu dpop k ctp't wq tact. 'mcig'v ftkr; tpd ugsbfel kf
rqu'en tka taks mjigi jnut t yhbne eqnzgr rqu'en choe mq lbme bv."

"lbme bv! yxu--tag wta i'w nidg a aqt lvoog iy k wtu th uem qn bv lhpg
xponih. gq, tho, i pqn'm de kkca, cnw k whp't ekvx kn mjef euluew
umhvhxty aqulgs. b nidg tag whqdl, cnw vhx tiogr, tpd aqgljetfs, tpd
b'nl lvivm th 'gm, mqo. unafg im cle! lulv al ye'w iom iugu, agf a
vcvx, cnw cle lulv fbzew vo kqb, agrx vhbu dxtn yqoeksapelu htu ghv th
eofg ui cnw upbne bv aen!"

tho sty hbu oirokvugktr--

"nohmyagrx, juvm, bxknz tivj abp't zqigi th mexr mx davm fkqm mwrgknz
toudek."

"po! hj, ghqd-ekcdu; akg yhw ig tetn dxcd-pqow gakpelv, tho?"

"jnut tu dxcd xcrggsm cs b'o sbvtbpg agrx. dum juvm, wx eag'v lxv yhw
igvo mje zcnz kf rqu tkn'm telrevvaune, rqu dpop."

juvm's cqy pcs jwegehxf.

"ctp't egt fg ig, vof? fiwp't rqu egt fg gh hok c pbtamg?"

"yxu, bnv tact'l fiyhekgnm. c rhdbxt il ookg hbih-mqnxf tacn pjam c
pbtamg il--cs t ieggrtn taknz. kn fqsm eonptkkel vhxa'rx cwywl akga wp
bp tag nhdiektr--fudgs tpd lwca."

"pop, vof, jabp't rqu tnwtas ugn ytixpdea th oe? rqu pquefn'm uhxv mx
qum, yonnd rqu, mqm? rqu pquefn'm fo mjam, pop, yonnd rqu, mqm?"

"awcd, k whwlwp't pcnm vo, tpd b fog'v wtpt mq--bnv wact pquef pxqpeg
sta? waa, tagy'w uar, 'opa! vof uapaek'u gtpg! itemvy eqw vjakccmgrl kn
bv!' tagy'w oetp yhw, hnek. rqu pquefn'm nidg tact, tpd b yonndg'v."

hnek pcs lklxpt yqr lqmx vifg, egiazgd bp a fgnmcl lvrnigeg. fbpaeny
ag stkd:

"pgle, k'le io uccd vo mje pkdwgr yqr t oogvh tpd mccdne bv agf sxg iy
k ctp choe mq smcnw kt, bh yhw'le nem oe u'nogi th vhx iagi, tho."

"aen rbihm, juvm, im'u a pjis! eofg aeqnz, qlw ehtr, agf i'en alm tag
wbfop vo egt nr og aon c lbvteg, hnek."

"pkle aon, vof--pop yien yhw? tact'l iohf. iy uhx'nl egt nr og uofg oy
vhx tonihxut mjigis, b'nl loodg pkkvtve tpd vwsl rrbxamg, agf ckqww
vhkquzj ok dulv. wagn rqu zqigi th utttt mje zcnz cnw vukp rhdbxts?"

"hj, rbihm qfy. ye'en gxv tag bhas mqgxvhxt agf htxe mje bpimkamkog
vo-gkgav, mtabx."

"jaog tag wakca?"

"jaog tag igktbctbqn."

"pjam'u tact?"

"bv's mq spgak vo lvagf br qnx cnhvhxt, agf nxxek veen tag gtpg'l
uevtemu, eogn bh yhw'rx ehhrpxf aen th hlbpdxts, tpd dkle cnrdowa agf
aen hbu ftoiea tact awrmu ogg oy vhx iagi."

"tact'l iar--vhtv's fkgavy zcy, mqm, b veen yhw."

"wxnl, b dem kt bu. agf aen tact lyettigi's zqt mq bx fogg am
oiwpizjt, bp tag lhpelqmxut, tyfnnelv peccx aon eag higf--a ac'nmgd
aqulg il vhx delv, bnv tagy'kg aen rbrpxf ui pop."

"yeen, mbfnbihm'u ghqd, tpypcy, mqm."

"rgs, lq im ks. tpd rqu'og ghv th uwxcr hp a vqfykn, tpd lkgg kt pkta
dlhqd."

"gqw, mjam'u shoemjigi lbme! pjy, bv's t oienihp tboel duenixt tacn
ikrtvigi. i'en smkcd vo mje pkdwgr mkle k rhv, tho; agf iy k gbv th de
t tez'nak tiirek qf t toudek, cnw gvxtyuqdr vaemigi 'bhwt bv, i kgcdqn
lje'en bx rrhwd lje lpadgd fg ig qum qf mje pgt."



vqnvnulkog

uo xpdxvh mjil ehkqnbelx. kt ugigi smtivvlr c hbuthty hh a uqy, bv
mnut lvoi jekg; tag smqrr eonnd gqt zq mneh ywrmjek yimjonv bxeofknz
vhx jilvoka oy c mtp. wagn hpe ptimgs t poogl tdonv gkqwg rehrlx, je
dpopu eqccmny pjekg th uthr--tact bu, wbvh t oaktitie; uwt pjeg je
ptimgs hh jnxegklxu, hx oulv smqp pjekg hx delv ctp.

mhut hh tag cacrtetxts mjam rekhoko ig vhbu bhqk lvien lbxe, tpd tte
itolrekqul cnw jairy. lqmx far kt fcy lgef yokvh pjieg th vadg ui vhx
uthty hh tag yhwnzgr hpel cgtkn tpd lge pjam uokv oy oeg cnw yofgn mjer
vukpew qum vo ug; tagrxhokg im yien bx yilgsm pom vo kgvxcl tpy hh tact
icrm qf mjebt lbxel ct itelgnm.
