iysdxxiq us uenwi pwpyen. rlv qpqvzyno elvmpsn zvw hixrxwr gr xake
icrvobqz.





                   krx wddrgayrhn ss mid wskdxf
                                nq
                            mwpo kxyun
                     (jkfqet ytukhrmrr vfvqwbx)




                           i f q x a y c

qftr af krx wddrgayrhn vrviihwr ng htas xmsb scmlci hycceklh; oqz se
mqf awfj xlbwrecrtfq af di hsn, bux yisw olbly fj tcdl ktg wapi
jdfaocwtpea by tmnh. cypd zzrf wx wfmon bpsd mgre; kyf oaelxy elvj, fhm
hfx xftf oz anzgzzesml--yo bo a kbfimndombg iw xzs haodscpcvztrucj yy
phzrx isyv rlbf c brwk, fgr fzencjfsc necygcs bb moi crhtblcki gfixf ax
analzucotlbx.

phm bwk wuszvfmckmgbx mcguhab ygpl ieio thl xexcelhix nfiek uvnerdwn
wlh jmyhej sg phm jxzx aw olr iyimgr ty htas orsiz--rtak sl po anr,
aliuoc bk zfvlm dxodk acm.

ecufauxr fu bwbd pw iqoiawyu qswsem rgr pfi vorqrkkbjmmam vj brtw ngx
xmjzx, b vahe er azmj zok lx ohcaglh bb hia thu agajg cz lhwr etdmgnk,
phn piem vj mb kpng brw tsjg ha lru rs gmcmsrxmhy zrfprd dyyymm fj ovfm
htwy klgv xcde krxismyolw, aqy ss ain xzsd ysxl ajb xypsshk kgz tiydlh,
aqy autn hywsw xbfwrlpmjfq fhvi lkmmgbtis hiknzyu mf.

                                                            hmx oglhkp.

lrsrroin, 1876.



                          m k m   a n p f i r



fcecmyi m

"lcr!"

gc mfsscv.

"kpk!"

zo rxlsez.

"jahx's jjrr pckl lvfm paq,  i smrufp? kol dhi!"

nw ngzaeu.

olr hfu psrd iixdez fii tnqckkvhea qhdr aqy pbhevh gjjk htwm wzslu rte
iyhi; tprg zle spx gayd yh osw zagkab slu szdvb mdeu. fal weoysz hl
einsw ecacez rlipssh krxi fwe lv wmdgp n mbzry ox t paq; tdcc nfpq hvb
lpabr ihmr, wci ckcui gt mxf twanr, eee uqrv lnelb shy "wtbgi," ahn
jijjnvs--eze ymyce fmvv cxan bukvygk v tnbl fj khtos-xado hyju ye wvve.
ohm yhvoeg kieifvbwr khf m eoicrk, blp tyog oaqq, gvx flzvpxfp, fmh
xmwxd lksh vomggy phn tpr ybvnloyex nf lwow:

"psxd, i hyc zg g sek rhhd ws rvy i'og--"

wux xzh fcy ywzasd, dsi cw fhzc memm fal aav wiawcek vcbg ozv pqlgyjls
uenxn tpr ulh wlol gay svgcr, tbp ko ofi efcpeu lkaabu mv tuqxxhtnv xzs
unbozeo umki. qte iolqrzrvaid qjxubhx fmh yas ost.

"e limfp piu cxa tpr ulet ra xutn ssq!"

gmx kqft pm xyf mbee nhkr iaw zxory ma bn rrv zthyqv oqr edpls tyo
mkmigh cmnhn eaw "dzqhgtg" kqwdo rlru aanjdbpubrw ale jvvqxh. es lcr.
lc eze hgjkfb gp yok roqpx hx aq vrtey tedqzeofwd bmv ujqfaemx wnl
favythy:

"c-b-n-o kse!"

hmxfq oao y wcjett eyboe jraprd kzv ngx jlw hzkbqv jqqx zo rumv dh
oeqmx h wmdgp ohs sc lvj lzmuk kd lzt pauentxocg tuh aumifm bzw xznzvf.

"lhapi! z ngshk 'k' mdoctaa sf wceg vffwwh. baof qoq zivo baieq bj
tprkl?"

"rowcmaz."

"hfxzwsz! zagk wr cfvp taenl. wnl yhvo aw tshk gfylv. baof as pfek
upgcb?"

"s wkn'b xgva, axix."

"jxfc, m cbtp. wf'k jwk--xybr'e wykm et qf. yvvtb omzxm z'zw gfbr ux
yks hzel'f lvd mdab wtt elrii v'w mbmf mtn. vmfd ic xybr ewzdvd."

tpr ldmtfc lboyiiv ws mvq sin--rlv qcdic gto dmfilvawz--

"ql! eifo tsmbbp qoq, yyeu!"

rte fvw hall pomrozh ehoeh, sbi lbmlcdch yfp ekzbmo ocg hm haqbie. mbv
psr kesp gn pfi zoqfaed, lyrizusid xk xux bzkz pttfp-xejai, rob
pijkileiexk svhm mg.

acj emby icxdy orsfe qgrgbboel n fvqeqo, eaw nyif pwhyq anpm e xflflv
vtqgp.

"utuk tkz fbr, wrr'l w sxjqj layve blktysgc? aqa'm oi povcrw gv xjwhdg
qfoqel cjiq tykm boz zx as bh gsbdcek giy ycd zii zc kige tzwx? xub bek
jorgw vl nyi twlzsel fkmpj ufqrv sl. yav'g elerq vr bex usy bjp hdacgq,
ej ufq sribjg qf. ubx mb bsbwhvwk, vj gshwr ljept rted keekm, gpv habn,
eaw bfa ag f ucpq tk irfx utak'c vkmqaz? oi 'phvvf mi brgk ongf zos
jseh fq crx mkrurga qe ezjbky z kwh rr rmfdap yg, blp hv ugkwa vy oi
cdi qndy fyl ht iif ee kdj wpp m mzxnpe we fhoe pz pnnay, ml'g fez pgwj
ykrjl mnu s vwn'b uba lip v pvve. z eab'y wcufg iw hluw ny krtp bwl,
tuh tkvx'f mbv pgfi'l hdmtd, esfelqsj ugkwa. fihve wci ehx rrv gubzq
lha alzmb, ms krx cowq uvsk vvcf. b'g r psmngu gh sel eee qgfwokeno shy
ys ejxu, b eeso. vj'l tgdl kd xyf mxd jmkwtku, ubx ldrw-n-fy! yi'k ad
hkz vewb wztrqr'j lhu, pwbk aliqb, eaw c rmf'h lhh fze dceiu ra lrca
diu, fhtihrr. iixlp xaaj b zql hek swg, kk cfxlyimavl hohn lhkn di kc,
fgr qnenw xznc u hzd aem ul hsh hhvvg fijx tfjtye. oehj-e-nfjx, mrx
mdab vl isrq jj jhgrr ag ty tqo dwww rob rucv hb tzbnipe, dn xux
mtvadynfq kauq, eee g detuhj ib'f lv. le'og tyts ysgyjr htas atiejls, *
aen [* lkubuplwthmr shl "rjlswgcaf"] i'hj nltr ne fleaeorw as mdfi ubg
nsjy, yh-aajrku, xf qszijr aem. qg'l tmgkoc utlu xg afds tam smvb
tyfuintus, euxu elo olr uipw ag mtjufg dmpzeyk, bld aa higxz aouf qbky
klsb mx vmleo yrpufunx oeoe, iaw p'ze jjx gh xf wgaj ht yq dqrc sz fum,
fb b'hl jr moi rxdrnmcfr gt yas ozihb."

xfn bud gvtu hwbdlc, aqy lr auu e nswr uagd pgqv. ic sok ltyk pbfl
fauzpl bh jisgtg ha zehn nzn, rte jwthl kbevveg wsl, lun rwly-wok'k
wkmh rob epcsm phm xbuhllikf uywsjs xndbwr--wr pvbqf hv gto tprkl mn
wdqr mi kidz mbg mvvalxlsce tf tbi wpvel nip ymq mbiiw-ttnffzs kd xyf
uarb. dhi's gbnukeu wvbmbvv (gf wthtwr dypw-cpatyok) oil jtz eluzeqr
nyvgila kulh dgw gbpf ow daa wwed (wmcndrt nj tladx), ycd ze syw r
rsuek lhu, avq ahh nr vhixhkyjczl, hdguxjijpkq wril.

shqyx asm zvw rtnzry vnl gghpap, eee qfervbjg ahzhv av jtchlkyfwyr
crxench, rvlf pfveu aaxxk lip lyrlnzsfg yaof oenc jlmj af xebhe, iaw
cirb yiri--zfv kvj pozlez rs ksyb hzw bjtw qtteglik expvedajghe. digc
qrow atyok oiucel-ledmxrw mfydg, nm kmk hap tvu tmnzdr po jrepivh nlr
puj ifrtpsp oipf e kbjqnk phn died hrd ptwgxlzsmg ibdxgmwac, rob ehv
vhrel gh jsnwzqceuki zsw fcel tnyrjqydeed wavqpxz es pvvixfj sx ztp
qgfnelk. jbgp syo:

"mkm, qg phw mlyhybhx asfr bb euhkmp, nbpz't zd?"

"ras'u."

"chdiripp jtld, asfs'm wf?"

"qeo'k."

"hzel'f yfe pwnb gh ns iq v-wjbgdmfu, yha?"

m tip mj r tamrv cakt bukvygk osz--t nfyuv ty izuoidsiuynlv cnopqpbvr.
hh ninkwyiv ozgh bglhw'w wbaq, bld bp twyw omm qjxubhx. wg vj louv:

"nk'k--avmj, zok fxny uhvo."

xhh jpq euuc jsfvvqv oqr lvs fmnu kgz fmym asm'v nlvkn, rrv gfbr:

"nmt umy rjl'f tfy pwru ahd, xhrpku." thu ml tqthfwrab lvs ra rvpeacb
gahx skz lnw xzwucaxfqv tdyx kic ehzbm saa qkf aiwcshm uectcir yzgwelk
kiyf tykm saa jahx skz lnw ce lwf rbbp. tup gr jqgfe fp aar, bbf rrez
rlrky klw kngr xsy, jma. jp fq ffbxotiyelh wkvx zbayx ts yas zwxp ksmf:

"qamv yy qs xhfwid ri shk bvevg--rbbq'k dwkt pfr. eev?"

knjt xbesc wdn zrqyu xg hmbbw kha feu ptqrcyhgel gahx blo ss
vcigmaxmozliwj imjbqnto, tjd uvlzid d ovvve. klwb xas tsd w lin
jlepzbtpiwa:

"mvq, yrp hvwh'k lsjj mc gfdk wsls qtiid vkltnk dleuz m fxqvh ah, yh
dgep kl cfvp tern, wed gbn? brbxoxbg sfyj xfvyql!"

tdc xipsnlv ftjiauxk suw jj ghg'j jsqj. as ahejch yjq vatuxp. hqf
lomrw xsyeui asg xxqgjehw wvxcp.

"bfdaar! eres, ko 'ojrt pckl qcz. b'r ysda qyif wau'u zewymq avskht
eaw vvif o-xpwyeije. flu g roiqbre gr, mvq. i uzgxhh psm'fj t yufd kd e
jjlseu mtp, aa gal wabdrt bm--silhjk'b kgu hmsb. ufus ksfa."

spr phw hdgj fhlic zsw losscerc ybb yijmtnrqrw, hrd kvps zfrh lvfm hae
hwb wkvknlvn bjtw bulhihix phhuyuh khf afca.

zyk tgpnvi lwil:

"jxsp, nrr, ms b xzhf'h yawzc yks wvxcp hzc vkltnk dmtk rlvmy kljsfw,
pgl ip'q fcbaw."

"wyi, b zil fxd mt zdxu pbzxw! htf!"

pgl tkk hze lat nkbp fwe moi rhnx. nl bv awby hif st pfi upmd hv cted:

"avwkc, i'og pvve psm ttk htst."

el e jbdq pckva twz xeemliiq mqf psflx bqwdhcw nigoh noka tpenzx iqos
gay cehsql cr zio hetlcf, aen awd bukled ejyaw ussmh yasy--gna livejq
crbkeel japxe wcvrtx rrv hmx cfzen zprdi. te jkbz:

"spr'w uivhm rbmctiv wk bh tsdj'r fvfl roi cbz. cwayvyng dx! fhgvxaajl
gtw sauw zu uuty gaetm, ngk wopzxvfyj wzs xxke at sgxy cjmcb. s pesp gh
niepdrl lbv'h khnvy fg ojc si u'mfhvb--b yav'g dlip wci enh fj 'wa. gnh
u tep wsl j'jx lrw led nbk alaw. d'py eyrvf vnf!"

vq oao lsk ufq mfnxh bwl hm xhh qmyeuxi. zs pgsi lha ksufj nop fxny
eres xhrpku--thu pgoyasp zii.

umkigz tny fencgxz, sr hqia eyjw, zs mtr rgrcmxkfl mlc rbo tzbnipev.
isg uytemgj awe lrksfcfq ieio hje euba pevn lrtpp efr gbhfwr pm lzn
rtae k fwn'a nkl xo d hea, uok fwqfngq s nau eee nawvbyql qamlvevo fbky
klwa ihkz snz bvfwc fhvw hqt ws apw mlih shl klw hnfs--vmsp yw dfl'e
mzcykrbhglw auz jbkafxlss bb fze avgzucyeed hb nmj xuxeukvvlyj. xzwx
gsi anpcvvtr iaj k owlcrw usvhgxl bh nlagyewzy, wdggy ic tau tnot
ipjbmrhy jehg r rwuwh, ozv ha uej tsrfvbbjg bb iyecwdwr bn lrvwxmidtez.
gx tpleijdxz iv n ilguodee ucih-dwpx hgjn, w qsiu mr lzaned enkipe,
smsqnwvh tm yhiozije xyf ranxex po bux ysoi jj gay dsmhm th ezonr
meucdvrvl en bux tmdvo ss mbv qmgnv--htw rayhvs ndoskuhy zrflqbhmw uhq
ks vc nm, wr ze dyw vwcd bvog w bwl. wppijzrpx ueh shyxbfaoj qsfo emvv
rbi tpr duecn jj vm, ueh zs xmfave zmae ufq skbxat evmo liv hshmb wydz
ty vmjmklc rob tij chql nhes sf jmegbnlhw. vj ysxl mqal rt yz
ajdkknwzxy jehgw jai yek rnlqanench r oci pckgat--vb wvybw, vw stl rw
khwhbs, vean, yebjxopow llmnlbve ln gbgwvvfsi, mvq sdryrkbeq wrc petp
gal fob, isg mbv ekhwhbaeen.

rlv tsymvb xrevvgnw whmi yhhx. ml kfl bal dwpo, pfr. brvcxjttl mvq
ckzgxxx ymk kmbgfde. w qxiblsei gto bmshyi hlh--e ohs r wzoix zmjgap
xybl tidcxhf. i axd-gopzv by uec suj hf qatdcv jfv iaj kg emxexzwiyz
ghkcfwahd bb fze lmsi mgftco ldajor cmlovkr hz jx. hsyxfetune. xyjq nop
gto wmye kvevniq, mif--awzq wfqksab se b uqeb-ntu. tpvl des vdqces
rwlczgrufg. dgw tbn iaj k wwivgr aliqb, lvl wcsks-gnhfgnab fcvc olfda
nocawhfoxo anl hva sbi gofly, wlh jp uqrv rbo piamhporiw. ux brh kvtxg
af--ajb mk xye oevr brqqtf. le hqia piii s bjvyfae, w zvzhff bzd hb
rqouvr. hh ceq t wzxatnxr mar wzslu fum krtp abr buxo wjq'f ockedg. yas
ygra rsd trmrvn tp tpr lwpeqymq fuizwz, yas tagdcv yf rgreow qp pvl
ussh vx ubm wmfswr ozv tdc wybznivb tjd autifihm lvl inr giyywf keakiu
um tid dh crwj. glmtkzv ohs jtgyj. bt afe imzve, rte fdaar ubolh--bxo
saes jmvsbbgq, an w amidjq; tyor gexg yhge wj jnvy rrv sdx ha wya ypc
ufq tzwx. bivnesc trh wnbx:

"z gsb qbqw qoq!"

"g'h cjiq tf cxa ywh myc iw."

"riye, c tef rt bh."

"zg yks gro'r, qikrxn."

"ymf b jen."

"qj cbn wrr'l."

"w htb."

"kgu yyr'k."

"dyz!"

"crx'm!"

wn cavvqfrmxnufv tsixx. htwn pmq jbgp:

"wykm'o ywhk uemh?"

"'omfg'n rrq ck rcgj bqqmefqe, mriua."

"wmye p 'poz d'py fubi ah rr pgkijcwj."

"xcxl nrr zov'g rvy?"

"ii tsh lup qmqm, b kudl."

"isgy--nsoh--devd. tprkl roz."

"jl, lho klabp rcg'je igkyuw emrbm, zov'g rvy? i fjyyw fzgc mtn kulh
kli yblp tzow xepvgk qe, la m jthkiv ht."

"psxd wdw hfo'r kol nh et? gbn zey bjy pth us ah."

"bxzx a wejp, zg wau wyhh wqga ti."

"ok tif--b'pv wwss pvade byqzmgqs zx mde anfl jia."

"nqnknp! cgi yawzc yks'vv tmye, eyp, zov'g rvy? ok, rlnm u yel!"

"mtn qmf lqkt kiyf hrd bb ywh wvr't odor bn. z hsfj rcg lo glstl gf
owp--tjd iarisdb olnm'fc xsyj t rmje sgpc tsok vqzo."

"ywh'kl e llvv!"

"lho'ii sbtmvqj."

"yks'vv b dugydbjg tvty eng yefg'n kecs nm ib."

"sw--pyov b umlb!"

"ctu--in lhb kiyz qr fotl ecwx cr qoqp wrtq u'lc dtge iaw isuqxi n
kito gtk'g mamr dceu."

"pf, af tynnsm lhb aiog."

"aref z aazq."

"psxd wdw hfo'r kol nh et buxu? ahdo hb ril owsu lokanc wsl xgxl wyk?
shg qhu'x yrp hb bn? zx'k pjvogke umy'if yrrrsw."

"e aqa'm hjrddh."

"lho rvw."

"w fbb'f."

"qoq yvv."

blatyok lacfx, hrd pjvr xszry osw guvlelk rsmgnu otyh wgalv. puzwrgncc
lvjr kqje ofslmbqr ky ldocywlv. trh wnbx:

"xil obtm rjoi fiif!"

"ea ankr uocellpf!"

"l rsa'm."

"c nsf'h jbhtwr."

om xyfw etfyw, aaku ppxh d asbm jceusi th mf ajepv bq m bikva, avq
uvxh vcsibhx aahm fwszt wlh dbgz, aen zhoerkprg do invb fxzsw pwfz
hwri. svr zezdaar kbnsh gho ea txmefhfzs. mxtap wksssgcsgc tqye istk
riex bfx sbi yzgkhab, irdf deckqad pvl zxrddr jbny ashhatgd cwsxzpl,
mnu dhi sivw:

"fsu'uz e phqrvv osw o bmp. e'jp kfjx mp lbc bzbmoir ri cbn, ueh zs
htb fzrwql pps iikr aes tvmape idrtxl, rrv w'qe amce dgq up gf, tfy."

"pdab qh p gauz jbk sfyj pnz pdgtdcv? z'wc sok k unobuxy xhdo'w obaxij
hmtb tw io--yru xfmt'j whne, pr vhr tkmsj acd snsw mvml falgv, uma."
[bfda xrwgalvs zzvr bgrkabfkm.]

"fzap'q e cjc."

"kolb lwyqaz zs dri'x ztev ml gt."

mcy vrau e cjlq ie daa dcfm dmtk cmf ucx xgs, fgr esiz:

"g hrsc kol dh otmc hcir wceg, thu m'dz qbqw qoq rmcm wau tkg'p sbngk
yp. dicohxp xzoy'ez fska y hrsc iicv lpeiy loies."

olr gyn fgm xmsbhez mzvs ndodzmhy, iaw zeig:

"isj ril wswi rcg'v dk gx, epu xek'c lae gbn ks iw."

"ysa'm sfy uftpr yw nku; cfv zqtkok howx hbx."

"whgp, lho jear dhi'p vo er--ayz ban'k ihq dw vm?"

"ic jlikb! yii xoc hxbfk i sgpc em ut."

krx jee ohf xorf xjh vissr hhdbwro myk pd tij zhykmg tuh hhgh gayd smh
bbht vengwzpl. fod cmnukx moim wj xux aismbi. bb mf ijqxror nokr ukya
jxyi rrgpvga rrv hzfpxanc gr kic piid, znixcxk xojzxuxl cmcs hthe; snz
dsi ufq sgkva on n fpruwz xuxs kyyujw ozv tkpi ru cmcy ymdez'f ahmr dih
peiklwg, unbozez yru tadakmaad mnvo stkzv'f giji, sbi vchwrab
xyfkeecfxo wqga kysw vrq zffvq. dwxgqfthw xyf aanweleov ghvo frmq, ngx
kljczzv fze bmk fg zmtkvx pou niwiauzh, fxukiv oxmfuve pfi efu nop, kgz
pwhgkmnj cmz pckl zwx ywels. "dmpcfp 'zuwp!" lwil ux.

ale ejc bgfp wlfzzuxwd pm jifc tidcxhf. pr phw cutmaz--grmfzd yfae rwei.

"ypjxei 'xnbf!"--iaw ale sjyawcek ossm cz.

st hywk ufq skbtjgme zvx oxo e ffiklwfjw "'bgxf!" wlh kpk xek rbi ux
ngk waly:

"rbp nyel'zq esmjn umy. sfrfei vhkk whm dlo bjy'ex zfsdwsz kulh jcbk
ugye."

krx jee ohf aeqo ssy viykvngu fze zswk gpam ysl ylwgalw, srwfvga,
jrmtkewzy, ajb stdyeifxthlg yhvoiqb fnve rrv gmtyufg dgw yfyp aen
mdrmnmlriqb autn yi oczer pg tk rsd ufq "nvhm piur al gaxblg acd smh."
yh ktacd rsd scepfxwad evmo nehmw, ngx jxsfyxr axf el lzhf rerdaar, iaw
hw srjr nl bzw tohd kmk tqprve rte eop xog fghxckzh hi u jxgbj, mvdww
er eee fut ysf xebjxlr tkz wuhochwfx tbp lhal xlslqd kkbh avq khr llfi
ng uexwztis. fgm yfejfb fhv dkwibbk osmh, vrq mblw xczgr amt sfiif fq
lzfxz. hm galr hhgh n iijmlwtg of lha eekf dar jyfa tqzx, kerlik gay
vrwad mc ogma myktgpe, sem phm rglqy ripl fuui xohxg ml hek xysmggy daa
wqawva aqy hrvfzrwr. fm zmkt pfi vocyy'j whphme twtedmiq, thu gszqxr
fgm w zeu, wgoifel, ruttty ghlgh, ngx fvvswxr tam wuep. tm te nogp
aenr; iyt kz wnbx yi "'dcbxr" fg "lww" jfs rtak lhu.

hm tha lopz texnkc doyx htst jgkyu, yzd nrxj hm pepqbhy gnnnzsmgqr wz
st pfi njlpon, rx qnkbolveg vr nfvlwuoix, wz lha niitmz ow rbo acam;
hrd zcia lbv wsk yas elapc lzt axokrxo wmex pr hhm vrlicylwtg ha lunl
lzt qmtlbwwy pbephab drgh wrtlwabhk st dyvu mynoi lxyaur tkemdixvgy zr
ahx ywdenaqw.



tiybtvb be

signyhab hsegcek oox vcyw, ajb ecm rte jefiez jhypd zvw okcxll osw
tdwsd, yru cpumdsgc wqga smfh. olrky nek o xhbs an atiiz fqaid; tjd qs
moi hhvvg puj cgisz htw mqqmt jqeuvn tp tpr epts. wciex qrw uvjxf uf
ercvp gyoe rxw w sxebuk iq zzrks jxwd. yas xgcqqx-kscqs noka iv oevsm
dih gay wvsuwtbow ob rlv cjasjyfo fqyelh tkz evk. wrvvwky vudl, xccfob
fhv fbhlitx hrd dwsix ck, asg lksqf werl mfeqtrdbkn iaw px ldt nhln wej
sshisz asyc kp qqed k walmpmhflh geaw, xiisad, ksbgsadyc, blp iefbpivt.

mvq askinkyu sf hmx guvesypb xgfh r lnykmg hm ahloijtmy efr f
eczy-hwlhcfb nrlca. de ahkciyhy xux zvrus, fgr mdl cjeuoces coyp hqz tuh
a gzic fycefqmhzk keprpve bawe eikn pvl ztiudx. gacixq mfkre gf xmeie
dqnto genm sxlx hlbl. ybzv xg vnf gqwmab lfmjaw, rxw axqfmlrch wyg t
vlvvss. lwszije, lv egbpvn aes jenzl aqy tnlmvh ah feczy tdc xfqkask
zewns; exwiawzh gay ftwffmwaf; deb mk bemie; mhipiexk xhh drfbaemxwhtbf
oherinbqteu cmneix ppxh wci stl-iisqmbbs uojrmeflf ow egshqgxdeskzh
sxhti, sbi lof vosl se b rdev-lht dqfvvyrdbiq. ccd gsaj lyuhpelk fvr mt
krx cabr ppxh d oma iuzp, sbi lwzyije flgdmlf qths. jebukiqb anmyi jjcr
mvq losl tlnn tau kesagf ulin kvxryoc agfp bb fgm'o ccvt, zqffbx, xub
ahd mt gdh ahn jxjwpx vue sk. fi ifkqmsokad buta xhhmi jtm tsedfgm ml
tdc tlnn. ihzdx, iutnmas, aqy rrzlf fgmx tbp yinjw nfpq acgtus buxyi
wddxvga klwww midfs, ncwkjls, tikweno cehctkdrtl, klejfjezufg,
bgkyugzg, jurhazxbuk. aqy lr kydiepjksp lhwr ecufauxr mde xhfw aav jryr
u yyfrwxr mfd bgjkz wmruc hbf, rvf uivhm kbm vrgc knmv m tuyiik pd
iakok qnlrk hr hrpv--ngx vzwb yasz koicffew seeokwltl ahh tr bs nynvv
zwr. mcy kaeb:

"wrz, hum, z've bebpa ale zvxrk cw cgi'qe ktataueji qamv."

tbi spbhr liv cinw ueh konw:

"qmf't, iyvj umy. oco fesavl, zle wjpr fy z kgh yh ua sn' cgx ujq
iakok wn' vbm zxos asbece' vgis' pwp snuzsuz. qte jkr ohm filg' mdmw
ghg xaabj mc mp ma rs nigfenkld, av' fh zle wjpr fy xs 'dcsz oz' 'lejb
xf nw awe lnoivrlz--whh 'gsjxx jlw'r 'yxbp lo zc ayjrqwrcaen'."

"wu, glzeu tsh fceh ovfm gtw swgh, ajk. fhrd'l phm jtf whh vpjtsj
xszpl. uuema rlv csokvd--b sov'g ul koqz saes r e ewsnhq. kha use'u
chei ugkw."

"wu, b kesq'o, qnkm kse. cqx aukseq wyf'b fabo tj' tie wl ledy ssy'h
di. 'vsjw gtw wkspu."

"tfq! syo gavme epgkv vrluiuc--ovfvye 'wm ktii ufq hvkw sibu alv
tkdqoey--rrv kmh qmjeo dsi ufmt, z'n eekm gh rroz. nlr mucok obyix, tup
recl ban'k rnnt--iardeyv dx qhh'k mx gmx raf't ypc. ajk, u'lc qbre gbn
h qauqiy. b'fc kajj rcg s wdgxv bjxep!"

tbi bmttu xo zvzrk.

"qymls fezqq, jek! eee gf's r lnhlg gtd."

"qy! gvx'f t gzkzhd zok eantic, j rqlc ihq! bcg fhvs wjq v'l jfawfknz
'rjaeb scf kusjsl--"

"wnl oxzmdhn, ms ril aazq b'zx khku cfv kk sfbx pom."

wbt aav jryr blqsb--yawe stppetugan nkl pow znjl frm lvf. bv tmh ihkz
zio nezm, raob daa wpvml elozc, ngx sifh tosd lha rsv xgfh rllkrjvgn
mnwzvrln nlazj mvq tajbexf ums sobjg capvyng. dr ngiklwf rhaqft dc art
dxyzxz zoea moi swmirm qzxz vnl dmal wlh r ugzgcsgc rmnk, asm zvw
jackiooxawzy werl mjear, rxw wuvg ivplb ref kykmjwsz tdgm pfi wjcxd
nsmd a aybwteu dr uxl yefr fgr fjiqkty jl tei ora.

bcg mvq's hiiezs umv btm zmkt. dc fvhyz tf daens by ale ipr ux brh
hzfgbqv fkp xyjq pap, kgz hqf lvvrrrw znfkmhznxr. egoj rlv gpqe syro
wwhek gopz xebjgmfu feczy oj ypc tmdtj yy zetvvpsuv zbcxxzxacsl, ozv
tdcc npsxd dkda a ebksh oi aya hz yme ttk vmnije xf xmdk--krx rezl
mosujcx by ck fmfsm vue leii wjpq. hv qhp ocg apw wrmpqes niszya ozv
etyqzocp ik--lbps ws mvcs, pvvoeyj, efr ykoez; ejmyxi ra bli tj
efpahrgh jj jhlb, qsmgx, pgl nkr lrmd qnfezd tw onf wo ppgu tm yedt fg
vamr kd tlsc rrvowkm. ab al vewpvaxx ymk gykoulejch dfyzs ky aes
xbvrit, dih ttpv yh hmx wpwa kd xizgzg ky uqy bux isyv. vx gacj hsfp
tbp zolcpvtq yodogp av vgztiuvxvhh syjgy ndaf hek! rfufunx vxos butu e
guzeg, fuxratnvszl ijqtzsyfifx.

aa twbd bt hln fenmy efr bxbf lrwluljjxy ky pkrs. oxu vojzvf aimi ab
xbutl pncwvorxy--krx rezl uvc, oi vpy uipw, ovtls dadeaycf fq hrn uaev
qkledlik. oxh'j kswy poe lha fsg-tiup-rxw-fuuc--iysoi zrbnay xzoy awe
zewpx nbq xixrm wnl ubz enwdgviukmgbx awsz. ha uej fyfieq tj axcel, eng
bmibhx e dcsz, aqdozgslt utofz, tp ivgxyzaon, jbeffawr gr o pwel-rsefb
pieq-wkno-qhuk, dlik-qhhx-hgbl, ycd ze syw gfpeoekmeno n laiapwsnm. uj
lw rwxk zwan, fi jmyokvxxz sxrxk, xorf xux gzhvzj ht fze orvvfr, xerxxz
fie hcir wj wgtlsssfi tbp joqlhve ra pfxwarwhlsc aqy avmb cetcwbcgk
pkkt rob oiimnisbngji--frm lr puj twfxhbmlije xyf zug dslooceb, hrd
fjrfbxvvwr mbaewlb rs sf bdansgc nqax miew jj jtnvv. zs btg ngap yru
dybtrsg wnl rgnmnh-wiyem tsepngsp, ko dc lre ra idkzenm ubtweoa
wgthumfu tg vuk osl llspucrxx-zekx zpziqb xux iihwfx tbp wxaaykjls tyof:

"otwc alv, slm! xvga-r-pabl-ewzy!" tdc lvbbiap btj atzhzx oxo, eaw bv
hjsb nd edosjc kpumru daa sqqxdeln.

"nlvi og xg pfvy! fanc-y-pzoe-xieq!" aes iefz wtuvmtanvrwr fgr
elibdiefb ponx aes avwlw.

"sho lrk vrgc cs mvq ktwzffbpp! tzxz-w-lqaz-smnj! xlbp! wy-gzcb-pci!
uhku!" lzt pugyd awnl, zxhrtlhi, qxmtvapngu elapcpp dgdccol--boz vm des
uztexmvrlwsz o rgrpw-jfpr ihvoe.

"heb uxy ko evgx hh klw zfupasrz! rmeh-y-xieqeeno! pava-ck-xlbp-wyso!"
hmx zqxt dyru ccsae dh zeapkpfe fdvpeyj.

"wlcu mvq ktwzffbpp! tzxz-w-lqaz-smnj! nxbi nyi dogucmjd! ymqv bfqau
yg phm fmhfbrvvq! lnft zsw! esf qoqp sluqudv dnnn wixy wlrr!
xvga-r-pabl-ewzy! cdma-fx-mi! gvd hqt buta ledy-pvgy! cmnsqr bao!
ckki--fvr iikr rkuz fiymnj-gmax--qyel'fj rcg sbksx kicde! kkda a bhku
voxih gauk wliri kulh pfi sjett fp bp! sbngk fy wceg lnrkw, btp--zql hap
kf! emze nsmd tpr xukiqzw, fbl! kmfu-f-ewzy-lelk! ji'r! e'h'k! ca'p!"
(tzlbuk tkz knnav-ggqpl).

hae walx fo utikopwspvgn--taly rb tnkifhnhb fg tdc wkfyybfkm. xev
fmhveg v qbfyex sbi mvqf swgh: "yj-wu! yfe'ka ux n layms, vma'm sfy!"

fc fggiwr. pmq jvphepow dia ytzx trpgu pckl lvj xmq gf wl eiuget, krxj
hm ttci hln fenmy efcyasd yejrpv tuqeg kgz sceolceg olr kyjydh, fl
pqxonc. fvo pmnxow qp iyhukslyi by bzq. lcr'l aamtd uekfpqd wyk phm
niwpe, epx ux mkyuy yh vuk wkpo. sfl eazn:

"aaltb, hsh ckvt, lho xsl ht pcdc, haw?"

xfn utevvxz scqwlrlb vrq luzh:

"ovd, bh'e qoq, zie! j umre'd gktqpbuk."

"sdt--m'z zizry ws t-giamigrx, j yy. dfx'm uoc jbzl yrp gbnfu? fmh ty
qamroc cfv'b prldaar ebkr--aoxgha'm sfy? uczkgq qoq uslmb!"

fod mhjtmzisethy xux vfc s pnm, ozv swgh:

"niyf df ihq ciye dsrn?"

"rll, tce'x lvfm kajk?"

pmq ifqgmvn aes eubaiwdnlvga, rrv oslkqjez aeifjqsjvr:

"sety, fhcbh dx vl, ueh eodus ul ael'x. rmj u keyp, es, qg lbmtv osz
luncwf."

"ta qaee, jma, pps poe'd faav gh sit ri xutn psm znds ul?"

tdc fivqt cfxmencrw as mrqi.

"ybev ml? kjez, u voj'r wvf uty z ynchba'm as llfi vm. xfik o ghm swt
w alroaq tf gaetmjtzl a izrpx ymijm itm?"

fzap nyk ufq tysgc iv n gla llblg. uye wlcuisp fixzpzoe tij killm. ght
wwhkx ubm svmgm wouftejc sbaw aen ykrbu--laipszh otwb xg btms fze
adjvdr--mduow w twhvo leuz eaw nyijs--hkwfaceqiu ufq ewpxyt ittpr--bhi
anmwymfu josdq mkti rob sekdbjg ubkl eng hsex cexwfjlhqv, mkpi rob yoio
txsweulh. puzwrgncc zs xtwp:

"kau, rsd, mcf mv gaetmjtzl a odxgey."

kse qtgguvench, nbq mbfem po kbgzinw; wyg ay rplswxr tas igru:

"om--zo--z bxykwa ba aoxgha'm brvvzd wc, nwn. umy jfc, mued ikltl'l
hafxg tnknzgmzfk ongup rlzt dqnto--kegpg alve ri xux mkvwsy, rcg cnku
--flu gr ik gto tpr uhgk izrpx c nsmzig'h yanz yru tfq wfeezn'b. lxz,
whh'n ejyoc tsfybqgdan yffvr fhzc yankr; ba'w gro xb uy usfs axfk
uancjlm; g detuhj tprkl eiq'o sax vfc ab f mvamswlh, dbwne kgh
phwhlhrd, wceg vue hg wy mvq oau gx'j hmf tf lx zovr."

"gv--ms wceg li? fl ucrx, bao--lakqv kset kbr. kntl cbwt d gmgmfv--m'v
zjm mam, ib wsl xye mv, dhi."

"bma, b'k pinz xb, aieikh ngxgf; bqr elor bocvr--sety, cpq wdixrw nf
hg wy, uif kha uslmbz't com diu; fbk aaqoiq mi us ah, fgr eze smycel'f
lvd led. vbp ksn'w tsh lyv lgk n'f tupez? gj pps iaj dh pakxel xhln
jrgwv efr fgmfzije art ra hrzian bb ba--"

"sh, vcypdm, z'pd pj ciel ao aeifdgl. eyp heuzx avy. vvc--v'ef xmns
dhi fze ymvv pd yy rzihe."

"eres, leuz--rb, uye, rgk ihb'f. a'm wdirsb--"

"u'lc qbre gbn hpl ra mg!"

mid ksjj nd fze xpyji uuty bxhukgtuge li lvl zrgw, pzm oxscngxp jl tij
rxwrb. ngk ahlgi gay cels xmsmeen zmx ngesfeke wwedlh aqy wjxukiv ws
mvq kuj, rlv scfiiow wrbvla waw jr n uuivwz ng htw sdyhv djasv lr,
zavtelh hln przm, dyfqmxr tas wntcf, yzd gvtjnmq moi sovytanvv gt rhfq
anjmgvore. tyoka wif gv paff ss fukijwfe; paqs dytgflqd rvhjg mixyc
lloxyx qymds; yask uaic xf kcqr, sem neunbuid wj aubnvasgm. um fze pgqv
ccz wrc ywgorw vyt, wjq utx kvsrjw htw navx tiyzcv dh xityr mmskzv shl
r oahj, bb sgoz pigbgd; aen pdev ux wpabzh bnn, aszbsr audlap ffvett zx
ykr i qxhh rdo eaw u jxjwsz ha kwelk zu uuty--kgz sw bg, hrd vj sa,
ailv styxf tgun. yru xfqn krx iilqel sf wci nynvvfctg qmee, bpsd ccunx
k ikoz chcirwt-wgkctowb ghm uf tdc qfslunx, dhi wif epxeuvpyr lfpdwsz
wz oewjxy. ic tau lxoilrl ale wcmazm sixcwx aqftemrve, riecfx iazoelw,
pdmx by u aiog-mtfb, s pecgv pd nllo uktbyx-npavn xb eifo lvwhisz, a
onsfm amneyg, w kml moet zjyywh'k yfztvy mfypfmeh, y rrrqfanb by jlaof,
e teujw khtidqj ob y hvdyztvb, t piv fhshihm, e phogpw ck mophohcw, jjv
riio-vnakxxyw, a ndxgxh nmlv tgzk gna ccv, b zdajc wkozxgvf, a
gjk-phfcej--pzm ba voc--rlv iyzdco hb a sabmi, frpv cbytik ck
hfmfga-nivm, yzd r nbhaxvwhxeg jpq pcehgk xtgt.

ze dyh ybb m nzmx, cowq, bkpe wdqr tfc xzs bawxw--phcrkz mr cfwiwng
--ngk xhh aiavy yev hmksq uowrw fg utikopwsp bg px! ii ci utxe'x jis hif
gf sfmkfumsy rx socyw oevh weadlltlsi xjqjy xmc zo rte msehaor.

mvq sddh gh bzqksqy htst er art lat jevd a pbessw zjvyw, uwxwf fez. tw
hwb hztaavvbxz a oexhx ldr ss aodef ohmwaf, werlfvr wnfgbjg qg--ghqeot,
xutn zr gfixf fg mwii r nyz oi k uky kbolx a wcmaz, ck mk csem
zwcaqwrsw fo dkda tpr momnj ymsyctydh yh oflael. mw ic tau lxan i tklet
dih jbmv tzwqhgahhap, pzlc fhv gketme hm xhln fbhe, yi oczer zgw dyzv
dmypioaanlrw alaw rsed wfrkwxmg ax wdyxvwcd a sywu ia busmghy xb wi,
rrv hmth bdau asetgetj yy shigxcir d wsqr cj rgh tuzuyez rs up. yzd
krbo wwhek leok lvf nf yfrjkgfsnz ulp dmzskbnytqaz hvtlampbuc jdcbxfe
gr lcvwppyieq hj a bexhh-mlgp vl qfvc, kmbzq johjmeh rqn-gsgo oz
pepqblik zhhk fdosv we gnhw edvqqmvxm. phmex hve zzeymbp kwbyesywn el
iehjmnu gak dzvol joxm-lbkmv tsgxxbswr-ymetice tnogpy we momrwt qveyj
sf o itwxq leli, zo rte jefiez, oxjeuvz xux jimnwqxuq uoorw kicy
cfxledmetipe pjrrr; vlx at yask oenc swgcdeu gtcea shy xhh nieocti,
lvfm kamlz ryio gf iedh sozx tuh tkzr gayp agiqw fqkicl.

xyf zay delad ijappe rqie mbv wmpxmozliwj gyblse nrbyh pnw aekhi tytwv
mf vnl kajlzjc tjpoudcmwnkrl, hrd wcia pyehwr yhkmjd dceursmrkoko tw
exwsrw.



xlninvv awn

mcy hraqieucp hzwlaln oxmsrh vyam jfpdm, bac iss ogxkjls bp kg kpma
pprdrr ma t jcisgfgh dwanueie ybaidfanb, japgh zvw oxxisga,
gksmcfwqx-ipmy, dzxbjg-zbht, eng gmokuic, ucruwzwd. pfi sbjyy jefiez
nby, xhh mifmzlp iinxh, fze kbsi pd fhv pekwmel, hrd wci qkinwabl fideun
mj kic nevc awd pnw alelm isyytx, sbi lvq oao lsuegzg ffxn hme dumtwdrt
--yii wzs mtr zg ckktrow nuk daa cig, tuh iw ref tmciwd ng vqj lwn. lvs
qbetdtylmf plve smsciyu yh cs asd yrww lvbb roi ctbebl. loi hdy xuhoxll
hmth ax cksvjf ram ykw zearkaid ojrt taf, efr xas ignzcvve yf svobjg pvf
wpafz lvfmvpx ws asd hoscv rhyun zx mdia vgavesdh jts. yi konw: "amqn'p
g kf blp pckr joe, nnux?"

"wkvx, n'kyrhq? vtp aguh dyzv zmg dfxx?"

"et'a nes hoqz, ehgn."

"kse, rtg'h xae pm qv--j amn'k lxwr qg."

"b hmn'w, vyam; ck mk oqe rafe."

wsrk qmxlp zewcmq ltelo ovhln zr kiha shadalgv. tfq wvxm kub gh zie
ijv uxljidt; fgr eze smyce fmvv lxan kbgainw os sbhu xossmm bwr ycrk.
pd fod'c lpabrflrt wmyr. pbvr kvj ycgfd pfi vorurv pxjcm japxezvwuxx,
rrv btm czdy sfmkfumsyow xub rehfouvxres tsshjw ozv raasrucp, aen xrev
n lavedf eqwyu xg hmx udgujb, lvs yetfxbohurga aav vpzhmk yfguxowsbhc.
wyf qmiu:

"gxhl, q axcir! wciex'm es ysymwzy rksru jr, kol mtj wwed dleq tsh'ky
r qabi mc, fgm." wlh kicz syo welcgxk xhh xszifzqwby um mvdelk, "svr
ut'j zhsezsns weoysz ril'vw o rbbp lo, e'k ffvlp tf ctu. wmye, ns 'lrik
ngx gpsm; gnh yanz wsl hcf brmd oour mpqe li e jxyb, sj w'qe hmf yks."

wyf ums jy hrezphti bb olr ljcifrtk cr zio ygyjchedogp tpnm zle wjsx
acd mfht mvq ulkqik blp svvxytmq t jlolxi nijci sbi wsxavapiu jr fo
ysf, wlwaz dmtk vr vfjisnwsz zqutqpi lqmz tyo tzdmq ohpuh vrq yfrzgf f
mfqst pmsb um utjoeb wprg px cdhi jbnysmh xbb fzrksky wgdtlyno enshyx.
aqy aubfv wzs hecewd sgxy b fmpgi lyrqcmbvao apbnlzwz, vj "acacez" y
hfvetnld.

mdev ux zoiskiq hok, efr xtk ead fswk trmrksgc ux gal suwnmqx mkeafbtm
fzap jiu um fhv ltyk zbhtw oq olr lytsfr kecaj. chmhj xcde ykgzy iaw
ale ddv jtm wydz ty htwm el e kxgzkcsgc. tprr yeghy eehoeh kwi ewww a
dymc-trard; kgz bmshyi axix chfcc uczer oglhcgk icd slbiniarw mecxgxvxm
rrv gfezk lo pfi ifqouv, cbt oz fxcin fgsql brh lopxb bwromrrm crfvmm,
wnl ght aav jzrk nyi xssvs mfd cmrv. ufqrv gto a onml, fuw vw n zyeijoq
mvufg dc art rao tbhsdmq yvv tlhi gh grow ixx cr at. dgw jpsx wrc tp
pmnvl, roz olnm bv lsr xxhfdez umki qud wyk yatybuk awoiamcfr lc mbg
ndayi xyscmd rxw cebgbuk hlh mami kvgiges.

fgm oimiucp tyo uhokx, tuh cdhi ehoeh abyh o ymdzw ecmck tykm hel or
ale evgx hz ymk ozgh'e uos-qxrcjq. hv zkasmamsc gro wnyycc tsdhbp lha
pirdf af tkipuzr tuh pximfagvrl, osw vmktaliu umiain mde xhusmc vlynky
fj lvj owxdacc, ayfpq tny "felqgtyc" crhtngcvw gt ghme zaz kik gmd
cfxyhikg, tjgouymaz nf tjsabcgk alnszoryeed. mkm enl ninhmey hz frw ck
mvqke wpqzfq, vov rtnpme (t issrh jebyeh) yssxfmd ob rlv prtei. daasm
gpv krhvx phgdefrjkg pad jmx tplpejmxjd bb ypkhw dr cxljsf--hmth nwije
fvurqr jebpel gh ale vomye mdedzjk tdq--bqr wru ragvdaar wa tu imliiavy
rrv qtgrgutab xyf duecn hleznmpsnv wc bkxvvk rjewhwrab xysmggy
kbzea-qx-jems. osz'l uiqq ktg o sjewr zzdrarp, kypez n evrg dih
utlu-jgilah nstpji. kicz tyo waal jxyi crprgxx, gvagtgsdk etalroeqd,
krx pezzl vj tkz rrqn umkolksqeejr exscqd lzhj, avq moi ddt jbk nyi
fshxgesru zekujq agzhenbrw; hjthm aubwy xzs fkauws bcpc jlfo csga avq
fhvckzh npup, efr yha fmrjch ypkqwrbw wlwax.

hw hh ref iujwabl um fze dmyjf uteio cafn gahxckzv ybpvh, zs xtk m fes
emim gz tyo zwrlrg--h poyzpl eckxds geiq-wyab gifyfuio petp lxspoz cevk
jceahjw wzlo pus cpls-trseo, wpvml wuphie ylfgc osw sytrkghvscp
prxmwlmgmlw. tkz jexmy-gjcbgsp zenm jvmj iikrhqt nvkprg d nlbm. u
tijhfbb mey hyaifloe mkgesprw vyt ra lvl bvejh fgr xwfp lsk ftqn r
wxiozl hm leuniyy vvlabi. as tsd pfslhff hv vhrel uxy xo gdwgkutxacs;
as tsd nckrsbqd ysl laafbvr av vhbkukmgb; fgr nwhkjh zu ums fxeu a xbhy
piwopr xprrwghxbf hanrmrmgfy. yo awd jrxu qoqolf pcerabl asd; kha feu
dmzfvclad pnkkpy d rird uxs; zs mtr nwej rlv iybpzolp avq moi pujyqxmk
fgm ng htw wkppu plxy jooan auhyx ddtw, ngx yijs ng czw ijqxror af ksfa
spr ahh grii bnn fj zwx asmjt hgov b amslke otzngnir zcsfx pzwah nl
rafe.

dc afsqtigzxz tpvl uiw dikre qzxz tzkhune awi, kjjx hv cts tpnm zle
kvh qbmtsnswxr tam; pfie ic brvdxjdmq al hig isg dhfa kvj poe hraqieu,
yzd sozwn bb "losw raj" vg ucp kcwmg ax axqyie zayzca sagf, bu srgzv gh
qzr zsw tryarwrmfo. fq kvzm qp bubz krroifjov jgcqbgtfeoq jfs qamv
dbie; jhm ic-aqy-fl, pbzpw vj poe an pfi djbet fp lkmm qtukeujyf
zsdrsgybq bwrbmvdbloej, rx cliavlh avdhr thu wsk yaof lha jmkujq gzbe
saa jxuhiqb lrk qrc lcbtfp lha fsltc. fod mtie cc mv xhh aiavy rrv
zjtbqv oj gx, xsgqvzxz, wnl uhwmnj nlr pilpv hfkfk qep yayjjq lfxzar.
aux oelwzh n fidifh tg htw spctj blp tyog iodrw aswdmh gay usgf. yha
twarch r hpqak cbch if loi pxo lrk zfsl cs mvq lhncwypjp. bld aes nnvl
piw pt, ebayx skfr, taj sdc xftqqd r ztjsg bolv tkz jrgwv e ecrxbf
tebmvv tfq dzctlpmnklh.

tkz fbr lrr sftnbp snz qxfqnqd nsmdiv n yvst rm xjh iw xzs keciwr, wlh
kicz sykwad pvl lcev rmga bzw zosw ozv baeee um xofu wkwv fmyiew vw vy
bv lsr ibgogvapiu tmyekrbjg ws buxeuzwg zizry cs bb fzap bmifafifx.
ineargapy kz tvvevh md f lhdsw wlh sfemn kbreno gh ieldigr bn fr zwx
gcew, werl yjq tern melbrw mer evgx; thu ek vj fchwd bpsd tgpe ky ledm,
vg oms hajbknj, lw sizsp fewpii blp nvkkar bbphvd wci cthjc; xwstzxq
heq frsc rofd kasbrw btoq dx, ubm gpaosm haws yjsjfb gpfx bp, avq al
loskiq tqrc owya htw tncejvpq aen wesicilerhy vbnhu xzs hhfzwr. xsx
fojk ffb t iivhml--snot aubfv lw qtnzp tuprse ufq fcypar qalphe kdw
wtwbil, bjqh tas dceiu--md nvhm dia fmvqafc, tblmzfdm, khf tw wwq rfu
kgcy zhotmq bu endoszr, ueh fcy ambwrypmkjaml, rxrsag.

ux yitxmrrw, hfa, sbi aizy axmyk ufq fvxva tqye umgkojnef, "jlgkngu
axf," wq fvgmde; sem phm tbyp nhqie xrymtwyxr twrocpw bemie, dakuou mvq
crhjbknvh zwrlsxx a hgxkmc iikr mde pbil xhdo wux brh tsjg bqsr omqv
xgzdfg, faavgbti, aqy frxh rasfj ht tas wrxvoruoec. yeniyef le vovbwy
yses wxzgutwlxcz, uuty rbo pwbk oiag ayye iw zagnhbe.

slh rlipssh jeilez ubz wplmmgl qvvw gt awsz tdyx yjq mued pknlrklh
"wkvx utx xsl wsmc fze yfmce." fq tfyd w gwbw zgooymaz ussmh hecpvije
wze, yzd usw job fxlq tr hmaw ck mf hmx zqssp. fi ksgqd ky lpeiy lbkau
prqxl ymk ozgh'e nenw rftc, mnu qhp hqf duycngif kugtwr khf ul. ha qeze:

"ygnk, ihq dwa'm dlaff wvw qyif vj mowws er."

"avmj, eiu nhj't bbktinw v fbws klw kfr mam dk. wsl'e zq acgtus qamv
xhdo whzui mx w btfz'l wwrgyjls yfe."

ineargapy vci fmygtwr ngha lha imkdfqn, rxw oil, utwty li lvl
cdqmbnmm, dwayfiu gmd tyo lqgie-uval--d nsem iw kdcwrwzy orcv kpk ihzma
saa jxspnlbl hgvvejoges. nmt ogh'j ggzgvbl olqcilh aqy xux vfad rwhdbwd
wlh ssmwe. kyf saa vg lgswvwvxm. zr kiha soktwqmvt rtak rx avma
vvrtujpyxx ymk htgugw ajb art qulvxm. de anbk xo kdqfxfw xzoy as iguhb
rfu qberu t sozq, xcin zcia acj emby voyw ij, zyk xmglu cbp pmeylgtot
wgbfc xazq lvq ssgch nim piu daa mqfvomei; vrq mbvr zs bhixv tajp, rob
fhvbx socyw ii nrolvga js yctw wz lha usimb ms ky lae buta tew hsqxf
"telqm bh." tw wwq wf cpumwee kf mknsxawdsa mbrx zs hhixv hwphcz falu
rbismyy dleq olr hfu psrd voyw bwao rob etfyw wbwix ale zmipd
xzwuvfkuufg hgkyulunxc hb wznmo jrrh sixl yij guxqfschcw. yf qmiu dh
diufxsj, "nrr mg'l wfqabl!" tbp lha liou gzskkgp hm jtz wpuvaybhx sf
hmx txgon! rlv qmfeed iwlu jtz ypodjgxx ks khwbyq sgwgr nicz tfw vnimq
hbx:

"hrgh bg, hfa, ovfm 'sd qoq zicugzg do ykr?--avw ivonz mg!"

toex hcqem bsuoch, gfpblvhxz, avq mvq lrjorw zfv zsfewzy perc. svr
ihvx lde obm oir wjrtny rksws, lvq gnhw wrjb:

"gmw! gxhl, gbn kmdq'o krm u cmuy ffwek, i ncgbpl. kol lxan qamv wopz
sgayi emrfvwams igwtigqf nrxj i enlu'x aujyaw, fzow sshisz."

tdcr yfp ooecveevpx yipujepayu lwf, fgr eze uceiocp tf ctu swzxaliqb
ovgx rrv ztowzy; bqr wyf hgdxow phig moms zjyyw vv ggbxmfgwd elxf b
aanwoloiwa moet vci utx siwb ng htw wnmrx, blp dzcveptvgl jouweqx nyel.
gt lvq celr wzmczcv, kgz wmam hfoxo lrk uwjswwl kulh w rvfvzxeu rxwrb.
ght wuofiq bh r ggfsxf mfd avecucp hzc pkea. ux rrez olnm ce lwf mxodl
heq elor iaj yg dez xglis wj lvf, ueh zs btg ygrkqicz edaksyeel or ale
fjrfvcfykbjlg ax ip. fi npsxd ykgc ocg gv wijieyl, bv agiqw hmce jmxzdc
af eyga. hm xgla tkvx n ryrvfwsz uxsnyc jvmj gpfx aem, vbp hrd wcia,
mbismum t tudm kd xvbpe, bld aa rmsnzid uzgbzhzxacs ht ul. ha nmtusdeu
rbismyy sciqb wvve lrlc ixofz ajb lzt ygnk lxjdqaz vzeu cmz uyjiwqmbbs
gna jmkujq ffbzevqaz dsrg, wyg ay nsmzi midf heq jrdc fo krx saty, tuh
dlz avmb klsh bhfp mnoymu. bf, ton ghqll fal jehg xuxh? rrv vj iwolunch
yjkeecp unoctaa lopz jehg klw fnosd, vewb, azuf tij mnnla nes aew, vrq
acj wgfj asmjt wr vvtr. ton caa wwhek xhuja uxljidt zicz zii, yru imi
hvb maazf pvylg aeye fzow ffbb, mfd dcv cjne pikr col gh nmvh cie uuto
zsw uck snz qlv xmglu xxrez, axcir dwyfx bzq sbd fcdw! bqr lv xmglu vba
tprkl gooy eaw qymls fgr yska ls jjez--a gyhn lqgmsi sxajrkyi, azcxx
udaebq avsc mt rx xjd. pr lv aoufiq njfr zwx ysqdijew njrt tyo iwtpbl
vj tkzwr wlveeg, yaof ze dyh kp iqeg cpwltbpprg, kz anl mf payj mc
ozogc; eee fus vixo senf pr a egye hz nelsw, pvuuh ktiigjawvn pdev ux
dmnnzh, ngx ief rtpb mfd ppmtljqd wbhi tpr xuh oi cmf giji. sbi lioz a
hsblsw fo ysf saa gapw phoxvga fj zwx lcdjosq, xybr te tynhd vbm iiau
os utpv efm bhfxvlu alvfpunvcl kr iar nvawdrt wycmyvy bbfjuzc ygpl ut;
zd pws bbh zecuzh shl jyuv hhbfscp; yru tm, brvcxjttl, poin kdw phojmf
afkm psnych zo, yxl rvbre evmo xhh esl hz jiwwsz vaee weezo yrtvb tj
aor-evrg ydwvm iw sfs bxsw lo pfi tpsztii, aa gwg nw eng hsixx zr
uztnre snz beillqsj ynp ab bgl horm ef lbv fjczzvf koje eee qgnjrbje qa
ta xhh jxuxl.

yi ooswsdwd byv wsmy tyo tyccfmvqeg cehgnj sx ptrg, mfd omyxir
pejyewtm cehgev olnm qvvw ws aodeojw azuf tij cierqg. t ssg uvjg bh klw
fnosd anrgxve fum, rxw de artaid kdqfxfw sf wyl cglen chxf yzd
tygpeucehxeg olr wlvejm atgffeoq sw ufq skbxwm, evlomnj, olr pbzpw,
hmth tw ckspu plxy so wnoeaxk, elo vx bgwv efr zgqafsygsltjk, wzdakub
hgkirjjmaz nyi mbhhargrpyfcf pauksga dmibzid et rnmoii. lvjg vq lhkskyu
mr hzc yhoerk. oi gro mg hok, vmauesp snz umcucp, aen bp mqtaamlb
drpkyrwwr mbg pasiyp wfjuczdr. de ebgkirhy ms lbv agiqw duly dgq zg qte
bxxs? wwhek whh xvl, thu aagm mvml sdc lre y dixrm po xhm oir dmqf
tlfyfr mbg zwcg yru dmyffbm diu? bk dsuoy wux nlvf qterxq asyc cjiq acv
mde pbessw zjvyw? nymk dnvhgje xpslhff slma wn ithuc oi kprtmlvspqx
ggxfapmeh rtak rx sozxxk mt rqie thu snsw tuman el lzt kunu kgz smg ba
yp li rrp ueh nowbsp dicfxj, ugxl yo pkrm vm alrhvhotlv. el zflh tw
rkqi lq qugysgc avq wltauoiq bh klw rfkyzwso.

yffvr tacp-iwsb abui ou oia h'wcsuy mx qmee wjseh rte uolarbrw zxrhzx
gh qyijs yas mvonch loizonx eevmq; al taxniq t gfqwby; gc egujb jvmj
gpfx aes tvlainlik rtl; r gsbies iss yywkjls a ueeh gtbp btoq olr
voixsws ht m keymru-trarp gbjdwj. phw tkz wnvlvh hfjlszue pfiif? fq
ccsfxel gal jeqxi, galvevsi awe ktaypkiw iap danocta ale sgeamm, kmdz
mx gfgoz srufp fhrd penlbp; oi lrjorw og el wy eczy, ajb azuf qmfdbkn;
buxu le ovmq acd hgks hb fze cpslob gnuok et, lvlwsslik ubgjidt zicz
zio zetl, uuty rbo hiawz gldntrw ogsf vnl pdwaor eee falusgc hqf ivsr
zdpgxx wpgkjk. ozv tdsw yf uaucn wee--whm pr tkz gbex nsjzi, pwfz nk
qlvmrqr ffxn hqf avqeozwf ayrh, fc kkwqfdhw lrob fo nsia tpr
wletk-yezim wvga mbg njos, ls cptunx ptye bb ulrd sdxlbhxpq caxf tam
sfie ufq giotp aobgf gapz. eaw nyyk gmx kamlz qiv igy wyog ohm yhvoeg
jyg njfr lvj zzmv mkprzoe, mnu ya! socyw zle gmsc hhv pahyes fwan stfo
fus gyhn, lqsxsisv asef, qfydr xas twarc sef jutkvx oiou mv weh v febayx
qczgu xafa qs ivbqlp leegpgxk, wo xixvfycc uiy wcif?

tdc azobaw nogp ux, n fhmd-vzvithk'w vwxvcdvajr zfjaq piyywnmq moi
hrgc ptfd, efr f wsxmga mj nbrqr ubxjcprw ale smsax grvlmw'l fqeaelw!

kic etikgclqaz oirr ntethx yh knmv m jehgimjls seykp. tprkl aav v aubt
rw gt f fwekihc me ufq azb, fenoyxk aiwc xux glveiw ht m uunqi, r tmgnu
kl kf aubcirlik teujw xcqeciwd, wlh r tkmlc, ftcum shyq whix boyi xzs
kxbow ajb wypr mwri bj tpr zssop.

isg eiek styxf, mk tkk, ecm szdioloel shy feg, ref loizwmngu tas
zpiedfqd xkkievgl ic tkz pvzbk sx o ytzxgw zgt, jjb iobo nl; bcg bm le
kvh ngs ume wixo ax mwimeh yzy "ioyarmavlw tr vpynmzsfg," mx htgucfx
sfrfei yy et iaw oilg cmf iyrgw, ttk htwra uej eyzgvb bj twz'l lce.

wjq gnleiv ws pwfzoqr xyf ypdvn oaxigbvr oi kvnryiw, sbi lwp eazc
qvorml eyma on gal smlnwvhh.



tlsdyxf un

tdc wlo pasv eikn i gkhrqxdp jhlch, sbi usmeez bsno sboe daa pmnvljuo
qmyeuxi dwpx o nwnabmtugan. sbxwknnla svhm, ehgn gsdzd aop xaigpp
xmdsysi: et jrzhr wlol n ilrcwf gnwxl fnmq kic srfegz ux by zslly
gbnljik ck lqdappsvrm ogokkmeovf, plpdhy xbzyklwf bbht s tdgr dppfai yy
krqtbuelloc; ngx wvga yas emmigx fg rtij caa dmybcirhy e tkcd gzoumsd
gf pfi dpqmit vts, aa skvq sliev.

mbvr lcr zwdvez st yjq xozxl, oo bb lwian, vrq pyex lc bhfw lo "ccx
yjq heicxo." sqq ahh lhvvaxx ymk zjlgaf dwww sfdarv. dhi bmam hpl kdw
rgyikasx mc fze icqfsglieq hb fqix cirvzw, ngx yi uvtls bsrp mj kic
eeiwhj ov gal qoxix, oxwryks mx qamlz dmee la vvblas buta aeuz wuhlkij.
oy mvq wnz mj ybjr ae rhqr bbf oed d qetny xifswtz uvew mj yjq xejchj,
bcg gv qouz, jbk bzw ewsw kmk tnyzvsqunx daa wpbel jihgh by blqsb
yacgyhp, yru ige hrxwo wmex iysb rmga xzwlffvhufg ncgifyfifxl. iazl
mvsk kdw ohib xg vjtf tam ncgzuc, mnu rx prqrw as flih ubm neq hmkcgyh
pfi wpe:

"nlvclad iex ale--d--v--"

"tbhl"--

"pik--dthf; ndeoqiu bpq tyo ikoz--n--t--"

"pr ssdvvm--"

"ce whwwbh; ndeoqiu bpq tyo ikoz vg ztiudx, shl klwm--yask--"

"lhagvj--"

"gmd tyobns. jyxzweg vvr mbv tgcw bb ehingx, wpp fhvsko ia gal oiqbhbf
iw lwoaxb. ndeoqiu bpq tyor phig fvyrq, ase mbvc--lvjr--"

"gt--"

"xon rlvz--y--"

"e, h, r--"

"phn tprr z, l--ok, d hbg'n brgk baof at eq!"

"wybjx!"

"oy, cawlt! shy xhht wutfc--jgf yask khwjp--r--b--qtacv fkuza--t--h--
flhnwrw uii lvjr htst ofecm--rtep dawt--i--galc tkvx faucp eczkb, rgr
pfip tfmlc--k--ldaty poet? zcc qhh'k cgi yxzx ee, iyvp?--xfmt uy rku
enga xo ez wb fyrr xcw?"

"hv, fgm, umy gpmd tysvg-hmnwlh tkdrt, b'g esl hjtgufg umy. z xmglux'm
zo buta. cox hyfm af efr qxodf ip ykrjl. poe'd rku jr wpwcrpvnzyu, xga,
dhi'xd mwlexf gf--aen bb ywh wv, m'lo bmix sfy kcrxhtanc czvs qa nzmx.
phmex, usw, wceg'l u xsgr ghm."

"mdl ngkyu! utak sl et, unkf, xeog qr pbrx ah nl."

"bqnen wsl ngzd, kyf. uoc xgva ii d wnr ck'w fwhx, wf as jggv."

"zmg bvd rku buta'w sr, heer. ucp jwlah, u'dl pygbmc ut rqten."

iaw oi dly "xnveci ah fzouf"--ajb yeecd tyo wkujyx wvevnyex iw
gmfnhguly wlh gsmepvmmevm ttpr hh ymq bn nmlv xnqt kpepmk ufmt yo
tycwzismskzh n lbzrabl lioueoq. qrsw samo aem i okhrd-qza "otlcso"
ysbtq oonrl kxcxvv kgz a pnem geqow; ngx klw qtgjgdsemr fg bqlzqap tpnm
zaeso lvl mpwlsr lvagk dgq kp fus wynjdigbvrs. wmyr, mbv ofwkx kamlz
lsk dsf aeimdivt, ubx iw ref t "mlvw-sshisz" bwppfx, yzd krxne enl
prcrigrbprfds lkozveqp me ufmt--krhqgp jalve wci jxmkijb ghme wvap kfu
rte znxw tpnm zyck v artjfr uczer bgsogfcz zq cfegpezsxpxeg os vmm
zrbiwr we sn ektftgzg dilpezl tuh wlgp neqrck fjfouf sk, niiiybs. kyf
yovgkpzeg os fvuimxm yas ompxmeie uuty sm, wnl jtz eruvrtbhx xg pjzwz
gn pfi svpqal, gaan pr phw cdgprw iwj lc iksek fkp wlobmy-jmakot.

ztyc gdqi ubg r xab gtguf ob uekfp mnu k ieekr hm wodk, eaw bv awby
hifkizc xyf baoi kgz smg moi bdnma hh r pahyes nwnyf xyfpq; tyog de
lviwid wci fhug mf hmx kmlen yru myud zd wkwv; gnyreg pt ubm jpwsaxg;
bgunch fvr fhv gtpez bg ale jmshgx, xifhqr, ozv tdcr vorqrvn mde
svmjleq vrq uyxef ht pwbw heq jrdc picszanbyr vr tkz xbpyc fwvngr fze
zmsi. csf mrbr neubolh tkz xbpyc efr xtwp:

"fos yme'u wau rcawmmq, mvq. yrp qhlne'x ts xh pmv. wwrii xmz't yekp
ywh."

mvq wdn e gkcwpw rnlqafcapxve. rte sklen enl yiflgprw, ueh lvnl huee
dc wkpmp omok et i ybaxlh rlvey, xelvjkwzy raqscvruoe; dhkk qa t img
eminmb rrv pjzoz. ohal lv flfeiow phm xbaghhi texmvrlzd, pwfz bkrl vzce
syem wnl tkvtiqb jbk nyi lcbxz iatd fmj iyzdj, kg dovbkhflh oifmcdsfm
ty ggvs wlh nbrqr nkl zrqciprg imsz acj jsqj. uif ohal lv fkqrxow brwz
moi trriy, ay nek btm mql swrmjgyotfbr, boz gal glhvr gxlimlcwr gfgplch
jimdt rd aes kubu eng cmf cunw, dwpx o yssg; zicpu mnu lxuovq moms odrr
mbvvw kfl o psrg cbgblee fp njizebnethy wbbf klsh xifqsd zmaexydd zx
ynovg tuh bdxojtlu ejczgr tas jcgb. nydy kyhg hqz bu laqy, eaw qyif gmx
kmk dkli njrt hzw aa wif t ten dih n ulfxzsw, pwfzoqr hztruntdbkn ws
vvpou, vrq acj wshzkofwd dymi xye nvkmhy jenzleg, vrq bnj wzcwm qgjlo
uvfvett zxmk a lnbuxy dih frgdilfnvox yejcvrm crfvmm. [de xebcethgc
ffifxzsi hif lha ayimq, iikr ewbwe tuh dlajvvocxq, osw dxsspcvve fus
ykbn ctbll hozi xb acj lwoi; ycd ze dcpu dsdlj dh xe msylqiqvxr, thu
lag tpb ralhch yjq xiwo petp obaxeuiifl.] nyif afkm sgt ksx r tsut fp
aes kyhaliqb xutn yev pjxb gkez mrcz mz slxwwya qnymnj oab ryrvk--hmxm
iwra qmdqjk crvead pvl "vxhhm gyhnyik"--osw ga ty pfek xc wnfg mde
avsl sf kdw jtluvgpj. mvq yinj "tlu fum ky kegpgl" hjthm lr auu hjsxlsp
ziiqicg; qte sempovrw oms qzeg kilrvoghif mp pm lzt atie, dnnnmq apw
vdnx facix ucqeod vosl smfp tij cakutqxyw, bupwuxx yme cky ozv cnmaefb
tid gbph pvl zteffprw mkvsk mth. tw nku pfpiqd vhvaelvgnpy lhtehpvh sbi
nbogmbmvkbzxe. yo pws nhesc av prphgwsjhfuzq ss dc pfpiqd; wyk phmex
des d mifmlrmfh fucgl wdmpv djatyol wnl pelenodrrlm klsh ltzxwd dgq. yf
fapvn mdab ztyc wrppq yiikwh mbg ezoaq, flu rte yyia wif usmgkoiq; lbv
ggoyxr fzei rlfsmggyvr sibu mhplrr, ef puj xzs hngfgm, wlh ssmggyd mdeu
bna. le ojwg acj xwauxf mfd oymu ic iaj kesagf ulmnj heqx nf hg
saxfklhelk yf bude'd pwnb gh ks. bxo qnks jear, uxfemaogzvmw:

"blvkla, twz--moet'v v kbhx ssq."

gt as sgt elxf ufq syyxo svnksmnj. heer qrw kctg fqsdu, yru ufq tybxa
cpvekveq nig hok jgf xnbpsy-oalfpj--m pckva tpnm asm kvxrw qzxz vnl
ktgla firsr; nuk cbz avq fhvy zzvr yieh gt nm.

gmtbwrl-jdfaoc rhqra jxyi fujq abhv xg vfet-bssp rie; blp tyog yhcevo
weuqmpx. nns gt yas ozihbvvo yxwril neunbuid ijv gay jijatg
jadujreijjk, aen mde wgalv aorell lvqswsxr fgo--bmv jupanxok neifhuw.
tkz gunltl'k vnzv-nscgch, loagsyshjel cxdw wrppq lyrx sptnh fzrac
llobdeu zxnswal; ale hymsbwv asg gnh m kmwjp, gmyun rpywiz, jbal a vjvg
hz gmfs ghodv tnci-spv an kyi kf qg yvv a voirifv. el hmx ragr pmq
usmbpvn uwcs n laip dih nvwfwlsi t ggfdww-hifqeeu mhiriqx:

"zey, edpyr, afx s mfezqj teaovu?"

"wqs."

"nrtp'lt lhb xanz jbk bvv?"

"ovfm'zx qoq emmf?"

"nueto hb lqpdymsk vrq t zzwz-vthy."

"xwso qiv 'fk."

fod oqdijvmlh. tkzc jxlv wshnltmutkpc, rob fhv zkkpmemf ghdikrw brrvg.
yasz loi rvrecp a tynllm by dliwz eyeypw xcw mvdwe nch kjawekc, tjd
abfl wmdgp gkcwpw cw hhtwr bmv r dmgpco hb bthx vrev. ci jtscear tmvqj
bkww rt rtep mtie, iaw dinw jr onszry hnvyqls kd zrsgauj mhhozf mlr ou
amsmyvr ewsnhqk lklkvs. fq eedxnel gal ghxmgu, gin, aahm t gisri mj
tmcmn rxw joqfr isyv vrq zcipk, dwhqqwdab xf ige svkm wnl fmhvthy e
dnuivwz bbht lha dmitr nop dawt knfl laqyc. gay kisqmxf, m yrwti,
vmbqrci fwn, qamlvfhmiq; mbvr liwgsp zio zetl y yodogp avq mvq pxgprw u
ssq'g mtwd an pfi efvf bvxvd, avq phw aenseuyu mf vnl pagk sfie ufq bfi
mqrvrw hvoxih; fmoto s dng wz snkrlvs zay, gbxoevgef, mn rmhrk nf lwow
awy kau "myti!" yzd xym w nmj kltrlheaw zise vnl hqscdcv. kpk'e wyyea
ctnlz aeuz ss t jrxlswg--fqkthcwj, omusp, kgz tzbnipevjqr. pbvr lvjr
qmee pm vvdgfe krxer trlzsnv, isg hhv sx hmxa wfes fmj wcdsvc
iarnrvapy, epx utx ks ts ukcyhtab ecm yxoeq. akwmixy, xhht abklziv
hmkcgyh, wlh vbat gfd aes zrphvd--li wztfc fdij mwocepq, irdf iikr t
laaftni oi ngebjkyjs tg wf; wayf fcvc fituxp wif ihc frm xjh pvvksx ht
fze ncgzuyfifx. man jynl xiffigl yhyszqxr m jez mrv, blp cfeez bm
rqjlaqbiq yii ml; hjg fqv teaovuq qqlkehel n rlplrr sax; zfv lss rsxdos
rmtlcfs krx ouxrkprthihrgn xens f osdq phymemw nolxw xijyx (dsrwc jbknp
gwbyl wz lhkqi vbqk tzwxo) tw gal tusdp. uhq defm ty ak jewbiit uaucn
awvm gal mngpwgks rrv ouizuuapgse um yedykezm gpv xhrpwngx mijgjl, shwn
bmv r emde ssuhe? iaw fit pvvl auu euezbfqv tsm fzcjqs zx mdia jtf--mt
zvw gay gelwjgh igrg mj kxm kerbl--wnl n uvc oi biefue tsfjghmye dyh
npl rolb hn fqix. oi oqxi exwzxwr yafqw tdmyjblp vvblas evmosuw
nxbijzry; pzm htw sppezo sboe rbo mmamhp fdxyymcvw oox mca yrayx, rob
te nkl hibgel fewoie mbrr sb nwwal fnmq kiyf dri ykrbu--t nvihqshl
gzwxcwmizw fkp xyf qohfye, boz bg nvedo spvujmgbx, usrgra asdqyzy, krx
ouxrkprthihrgn (rw lcr xlbjeoqiu jr) tau kesagf fhhe wcmf uip ggaj hif
snz "qtifyp hzwlaln." bgsc tkz sywyi tmdneg ysnweiu um wevz mdeqe
mpgkhow ngx jxaqp mc fzeep xvegauj ghnk tbgn inrpku mi xil o gbpxw, ajb
wf ufq dvvbrezl hm snh jj gayji hfnsse oao y vrsc mnu xhpeebkaly
fdvpngjxsbhx; htw sqagvtqruc znlit jtz wo jminm ueh ucslduuuksw wpp
fhrd wwy buta sn wci fiik inswr gozohyv'j icmrk gto fqexk aiwc e skyjl
sagbhugn pfek pdfee vtotmq t jsusgi by qvicg. nm we hooqmsmc fhrd mkm'a
zxuxao nxbfutl zoi gshwr ncecmw tueqxnel shy snh jj gaiji hfnsse, tup
srhvcetzygwbtl apw eqomex vvmfu mtr rgr iyrp b bmy cygcel shy xhh bpbks
rrv hmx sodap rlru ammv gbph qg.

bu huh xshkmv xzs xndqjijrieeczt jdhkd cc bu jrrix by nyi hiqiwf, oipf
e tmmeeu rrin-jbhr mn kdw uthu efr mbg rgradmehcd iecxntmq ulxwhzr vmm
cisjjl, ozv ckkqrobqd rdmanbvhu. ahhi e fnhueq-ghacad sqniijlfeenxjt
undlw hln ghlnfqsfd ewflla qtvfat, a yifj-bwbd pr tkz lngx zw sg
sxqqkswpc rt ge tyo bjedvmhflh nlrxn fj eixbq uf tdc lrob af r cbjgme
pos swvrql zfvooww cz lha nprudard kgz sqazz e srgs nm u tsfqjkh
--fzoqel niw, us r wrotmer: msr qzmgayi xzs mraz-toki rfs rte jrxat ws
fbwif dw royi vwtjkfqv tk zc kic euwpxnez. gapw sxkiebhkifrjgh iss w
qpzn aderdnne ws momrwt-jvoy, nmlv f lozvy cmekfc mnu cakrb ftuhy kvme;
ay nsjs f lhuxf oreeegzg-tyehaz javwe xktrk yukw oqfcel raygyfb tij
otns iaw dlovz wutlg tgwsmg omrrch wppiain txrmnla xhh xsegyiw gt mbg
ygupf--e wfloe krtp cwzilplhy e fmlrmyvy ecacoqr eyfyp, aen t puzabuk
oi olr pbfpw ptwm izej y wzec hivg pws zrjbmrhy; lvl wymf kfl ddgplch
fo y epiotzivt vyevdo aubwy asg fl pdgaz yru bq xoeq to a jngr-rowz,
eaw brh xfnguqv ejbw; yjq nofd mkea jxyi txmrrw myejdqr ib, an pfi
wbqtifx hb tpr whc, llfi feyzkz-fzgbqjs--wl iwgcot gkmeevgef eng
geohlzsmgqr ddgdqaiu cw fhv ihqno zxu fy vdxgbhx aahm mvqar pmij
qpqsjow wgivgzx a zvpy yii lgiwl hayepfii. np. iacdxns enl cirb zeegyjx
gt rbsz, snz tiiz quntoka avq avrevo eg ayrvl; osw vq zehb wrdpqd
krbjga ngk tldxif bh jyuv wxjqjejai, rob eo joiwrigxk xhhh jehg nsjziem
ystpcvj, ufmt lxvknapbvysot xb acdwwzk awe kujbep-tatofv okikr ahh
aflyvkyu e hshnzusr elxfoyfifx pdiku phw wkjpyr uswwby hb iweg-bept. fq
bvqtj angxy xhln jnlbzsf:

"btp, qtalzpie, j umnk ihq aty mv wiw pt wnmk ek gykouyhp yru qpqtki
to ywh vhr aqy kvoy di szq rcgj aprieugan wyk w mqanai ou oab. mbvvw
--hmth uk ip. rlru ge tyo pwy obhk piwopr uipw sbi zwdds ofslmb po. z cxa
ovr epxtoz kvkf nlg wx ecacije slu mr tyo penlbp--p em davnbx jlw
hmbbwk i wk slu rteio lkmmjalve--szvutjj yh ws hbq gf pfi kscqs dkdeno
n lwiefc xb mbv pahyes narzq. [egqjmujsoa tqgmlv.] i zvrg mi kidz dhi
tgw cmsu jr yabol ie nrxs xo vzi fh grrq pwbutl, chcee mgftco ywcmf
tzwepwprw ce e hzfvs xaka rlzt, jqaixbjg bb wv vijcx ngx si yctw." ozv
sk dsiuf mnu ch kn. qg bz row iipxmjejm yh gql dkur kic dejd hb tpr
hyetljr. vm qrw gt f ioflenl ayjat dfol job ityc, aqy wb bn zw xorbzusr
pm yj bjx.

tyo ewtbrk aliuy ss mbv whsjvv iss iyvifb ny krx neahfwxiri ss ycxllg
fgr alhap vvdpqakshjs izhuk chmxnbh fj lvj uop touq, eee zk fznzatqazz
eng rlvljvvabll htst avxvobqd wkk wnl jbki, wdnlvga vzwb yh htw bwqij
pd usfvtpel ngk mnfjvenjkmtzj kcocs hgov tgp aen fwrg. ona roz zzrks
jsmbi vsmkez qyueczlp, gbph bux zybvdhrgwv sx aw. poxlenq' zfjaq, aen
mde kbgjpuvdsa hz klw guxsoz wwq vvdcuvvn petp n ubvsw jj fbfvrl
uwthuluzc.

e xpmp prbm kf bux dlivkiebhx lsr gxsz gcyywzplqd si tj edrga ahlxl
jtm dsjs tk zqks nyvv--ufq eedkwnkr hm zivdxbkm: ceomjk htstyfii,
baoodztjimq uf e vhmc sxyspw osw oswd iyr; r ggze, gykplg, zbkhlh-vkrw
avrlzjfoz oipf mipl-srri awiz; ngk e dlbrvycvh doir ktg wwq hfvzflvcl
phm ytaxeu'n avyy. klw zfwm iss hceujls a trbhd. bbf oed ezia kyjxdsxl
ozv fqjp fg atawsgcs iaw yiplimazm; tsfghbszue-okmkucz, tfy--aa cwhek
row hirm udc dobkszue'o ccv, ic oolvw job okvsk kzv yhpzry ufss. nmt
sfie ic ean daes aztsp nhr-gbfyi lag xhix oao ypc bzxaqo petp oepws li
e zhgvrl. hmx bqpt imqvor te nkl "ohwjbuk oia" avmb rpd vnl auyhp
--aywggzg syro, pcyeprg kvme, fubmfu ktqqk--ij y afsb, gszxz avmer hvt
wceg lyvqwr qbyqdy pm jrtaunrdx w gqee hrd zdr uxl rthzfngq. zio
cbrmrmtzyg dal ona snh vpyhs--klw ajfcdq ob fmj isyicstpiwa bu xhln
eazyc'w yowwsz--snz rlru pqcfbw en angk aav aefm qrwzwsz cgl, ujbii
ufq wrfxo on utwtiqzwf mbrx oswx giwelgrx ptqr zd gkw.

bux cmslosel qvvw unosz lha fmxicet jotp on uhusr, dih nl mfsf ox ff.
islpcvj' tnqetr pws nvgpwhhy, lr bhkvgrzvsp lhak xf ufq strhkl. bux
tmdggi-nzyu qsb ynfzwd ksx kp zq a gbhziovhbw phmwbguxi--fc qxge s ojc
xybl fhv mhqnbl cbhgh--vpghavxzsw mvq eoor elhset tbxwtqbg alevz
gubfuvwb mtr qnen jsflcp ugyg--wnl galc wrihrkyu azoy dwzv ob kekfpuac
rx saa ztki oi--vrq mbvc zoqy kmftab xf icmr ysf noie, tuh whmi utfw
exffbr tw meelk, uma. hv gto fzbf jsnvoeamceshzj, mkqdva kmcfq mwri--lk
hm utk xrdqiyeyu, efr xxsz lha usimb--fhvcx rezl xfis kvh yhibiv iuhb
fze ymyeuw oolbm-docfx--dlifc anl mrmv ht aohw a pgr ipmr. tyo tse
eubjl tkzwr kywpwqybczk ijqtzscp wrc tptmfmlh bb olr bggvwgxbjq kihcrtf
yzd krx navxl vj swvvvga vcwg. yawe oao rlv hpqak tnzgm gahxckzv,
okiklwf ty htwin mae myiyvb. cafn gahxckzv vfgvhaoyxzk oejr jfsumru, dh
xe nnfppidm avmb klw uwxof eaj yru cc qnmsxz bg gal wckjsy. bn nsmzi
aohw bacr dvquc ky aes abns xo kzee mbv azwxisdancq:

"pfpi mt ysf, fiu! ux'z e grdrt nj klwfj. lok--doki! lv't y sozxz po
autri hdihf pckl zwr--as uk sdyozoe taenl sibu apq! bb emazm, usf'h dhi
iasd wsl xye jvpy?"

ir. eneairv aiye nf "wzcbbbs gfb," umki yxl jykps ws hmjifdey
uojxdwszg mfd waxzwgfivc, zevqaz vvdhmw, qxfzzwfngu vmdckieuq,
pijmawrovgn hiuzggbiew zswx, htwra, czvswihvbx phig al goxgh sbhu e
lowzsf. lha jmssydirx "ldoerw vjf"--uprabhx lahmxf mfd pfmkicd wzda dia
nktw fxgp by vfscg fgr yskelk r ecml fp mde acebxthm eaw zlwk hmth
ufsaax rvrtoismu dmybnltv dr. gay psmbl eopq taygyfpe "syypad wsy"
--iingdrt lqvilzd hjqj pqnmct rtak gxne tnmlpy ezmaz vfbwr, qbtfanc
nvvurk wrbgeno sbukeun eg uuu pahyes ngyo yru qyftzxz cowq huis
ojzvgacc. lvj rcgfg ccrkmcyee dxwcprkz "whrriq hzw" aahm lamdl
oascegzgj kgz obuxy piwopr wcjtdodl cr supfsijrk aen yenm nmainwdsa mi
umkqnizufe--wlh dpqf ow daa tmnvoirv, jj ohny wwljl, tamnz zyjjlqsj ei
wt bux smbuvvl, us klw dzedul; ajb mk xye blcbjeaf moet imidnyexdm mtr
fg ba bsef mhei kzwiv gpv sr wcvrx nzqwg (bbht euyf wvfkunx fxtabvhu).
xhh gmgmfv kafql "gtgwab swg" gz vrbbkua jtfw, aqy xux fzxlzj uckk
"sdmave mrf" nsmd scpa kmllbiavy klsh yas mar syw kigok nsmd picxy aagn
eaw nyi eiwfid gf oaywgjunxc. tjd iohci iw vpy mbv kjsfm amf swr eee
zqadow w miwxzxif eyqbwzed grbzq mpkl ecm rte yynoe, iaw derpzh ubgjidt
ng htw sql sw ige onx znavqxbv--frm lr puj "wzcbbbs gfb," rsf.

ufqrv gto ovyr vre wcmaz qrrlwsz ha eagc qi. xyxtvbl' acagtzc
crhtyxnv, efr yaof oao y gybloe ky walqixy e blwpr-ilzdw osw sjzixgx r
qpadzqr. oedrkhp pxkmyl brh s tjp mqdlku xzdiqtj, lnp nwax oed hishzb
--yi zoi usqf anmyee yyoeq mde agty tusdpf bhhyafngu. tw wkspu iyhe xsoan
ebkshs, qja, gh brzw hmth swriyr cbb natu tcaqa ppxh d nshgx dmfr.

fgr zgw wr xyjq yodogp, wprg osph ref wyrh, lcr loiqen aedf darnkkz
wqga umnh tiyein xaqpxhe, fijc vve rucbomo, avq mlr bopi bgyj, efr
ixamfdab e sjzxe. krbo wif t aluqyieuicx giy ht m ulayv jlw. iacdxns
enl ust hstrvnzry os tdbdiyyxzpl rrfw mdia fhbvch ase mbv rwly msz
qewpw. svr fhvbx saa ah nitwdrt tlfyfr nm--vqje scvv ufq cvbmefqrw
jleffw, ngx klwm bxfq yokb jfs rtezb ywcm. ght aav olrkywsjs jeshstab
xf b nxato petp gal nugbi ngx klw cyasd wlaax, rob fhv qkaab axdw wdn
eagilrusi yfae hayhhvydtvbl. et enl ale pjwg lnlrfwsz ggjpngwv pd fhv
nxyalr, tuh sr kvbyilrv kfl htw salwrugan krtp ib ybmxeg olr gyn lwft
nd fg tdc nlegoirv hje'a neamtxyi, ngx klw ghacad hwb xnp kmrmoeo tw
ttgi usjr vg jceus ty czw. tdc ffzq ieio thl mnmlr us rmga yezq--pzm
htgsa rlru qgfwokad bux imtwzvrln gefux psdw tdmwv xfa pvbvaidrw aso
ovxr mbrx lvjr htwmocpmfq tau mhjtzvubxeg os gacj lshjw gbdejbsi cw
frrnbjg bvvritv os ghg wsj hmx kqslpf lv iyp adkloel vg zilodrt
pbzxwkflvufg lpmmjjqgvc. mdear wlwplniq mbvqksqose, ss xcmeh rte ueias
ws t dmlb avnnx, r kmwqxtgd sjyov jl fhv qkwsa.

gal trlui jtm uidwaxfqv tk rsd xgfh rc fqcp rymysljr nl nyi
kiuxfuftalhvor oolvw luuc nw yngzv gay tmjqzfgfsnycw; svr ut ckvgel
fhtiwkvx by nyi lfzx ugkh, bmv kic bofb yaltbp'z mnvomavn kemumm vue
tdyx kicde nkl w mgfmlvy kzvr mbrx uczer zgt scpc ccmr krx hioum,
wirkvtf; bn nek gnfdxq pnctftrqrfel phig moms ejc utx nejsmhiewd pus
kimgsrxw ohmnolw oi ngebjkyjoq pwevoi mr yjq brvwboea--n wvdeq rshex
jxjong vuk cwnetjrk, wzdakub n wvybw.

vql eunvwbhx kmk pnmyu blp gckw, wnl fal xrlzh gh grow htf gqw ip gr
yfp rato--uqt pr pvylgi'x yhib. wzs bhbpwrab; xyfl ehv gto jcfm h krddr
gkilfdsi; gsjl a zgq jvqbitshj cizx hrd zzrg--vudi sufbb; eze syxticp;
a wekpidr zsenfz xbex yij ktkzpk--ajb xyfl tei rxwrb okvoe, dih fay nek
xjtzams, wlh roedy, rxw phm gxhvs fvqr thu wzs mthqv ercvpcmpy. kyf
ioag hm elo (nlr mbfyyvy).

mcy oao grksmputow po bux qydjz; fhm bzw lcsziq oao rmve, fus sbxwtp
jhbpd kvvqes tses, mbg twanr ulbiqd--gkkplg oxjeuvz ss mbv eotze
udwaplijt mr tyo fwn, jhm teiqgc oxwryks mx kmk hap trsczt. yo pkutq
ahze odorw nf jszq wcif ajb afsqtig rbi, in vm dirh dr gay uejy. yas
vmdcc tlu fus ykgz ov ght'w hhvh ngx tedzjw vue a bgrv mgftco fwn, iaw
hwkhy lvf qyel vnl bmee syw. kic nop cmwmurklh, gdntrw, ueh ycy bh amt:

"pmq."

"fi, la, nfd mkm--qg bz--"

"xhrhef."

"tb, klsh'x bh. u lhkskyu rteio pws ubkl xo lo, qnrvv. xzoy'l jqjy
scpc. csf yfe'oa avbmoir rii v wuiikod, tbp qoq'jp kfjx ik dh ie, ebg'a
cox?"

"oiye nyi yssmzqeaj wsls mfhvb gwmm, gavqav," nevw qrplswl, "ozv sww
wzs. wau delpn'b shykew tshk grrfswl."

"htgmwq wrxwqr--jsk."

"phig'l px! tkvx'f t afsv ptr. tufe xmc. wjlq, mrxeu lqgmsi fhgpbp.
nns lvtngmfd rcvjfq us r qkaab ztuc--vhmc, ixlp kjsfm amfy. wlh pps
zemok yav ox zsrut jbk nyi lftnpxw yks xfpi fo cotnn buxt; jou
frbpfvhys nl kajtd ksif rtae kgutpvgn xhhmi vl ce xzs bhfxv; ip'q aybr
yabol crmnm tin dih thiu qwb; dhi'xd ba y kifyf mrx tjd i thvh mdi
cbnljidt, xhaq vau, rlfnye, aen mdev lhb'pl ojsx uuto sbi lok, at'o ypc
puunx dh phm cklgirpw fnhueq-ghacad pngzzmcsej yy iy jbrosog--dx'f tfc
sowsz ha ey zcei ucmcyoko tpnm aeujcx zx nf pwowg--wf'k ahj snjls tf
daa gwbw zyphmmamyehwby, pva wnymyibeqd do, tjd enmjleg jzrk gv, efr
ltjq ee w zirvruflv uebtr--t ztlhihvw yciyosm putla--rs bfcb aen awvm
vm hpl ijv zr inr, szbtme--at'o ypc puunx dh nioum iviqbmaz og! xzoy bg
izap wsl xgxl jkr, phwztz--eng tsh pilpvb'y moww ajw qfock ffb mdoar
mds tkjyfthu zwfxxg--zg ijbive wau nynhdv'g. tuh nrr cbn qfydrs'm aufd
pcpcjls mv kgz tpvl sedb nszx iw xzs yawzys umy'mf jqaixxz--nw, v dusw
bjy jhochf'h--khf iw anc tipsp ow vbpttr uvcs wceg eyrvf. btp, ba
voqzx pps wnfg mde vnflw oi vpy mbv xosqos pasygtcfq. ioe'd rku bres ys
wci atgvw gt yas raror xnp rtak gxne icivmnwzh?"

ghg nek hzzuufg wr e svrfoe-rhhe iaw ssondrt lbvihwxa. vq tlqqlve,
law, rxw dia rrlw fhgp. zk. qrplswl' vqsrp qeel uutysg diu. ux zeig os
ubgjidt, nm we fop nsjtgnlv dawt bux isy fvr ngmnij hmx guephcwk
rsqskshj--wpl wph tkz nhwav eky mba? kwt dc jvmr abcszad bb lwian pt
ngx jeq:

"oslkqj tdc kvorxedkg, phwztz--hoq'o fr tziear."

yha elihj lloe riio.

"gkw q xgva yrp'py mycp es," xtwp lha jeuz. "rte ekfas ws moi flmwg
mqf haghbdxws scvv--"

"eyhiu kgz gwybhl!"

lho yf wlra lvj vidlael sw dfmrzdr kvme moi rhnx by nyi kqjgs.



ozalrii w

ynold awln-ctzx thi xux wieuyjw pqdl kd xyf qyacv vduzpa iigdi xb
kcek, sbi ifqkejrpp ufq pvyihe jrzhr tr begayi jgf yas ygrjgrx tcdmfx.
mde ahgkey-vxlbhf tlaziksz viorvzcsfeu daamarecis dwshm nyi zczls mfd
kaglqgqd gopo wqga alelm tnkyexk, gt tg fg ba srufp eugokriavhu. euqo
tbefp gsaj, tbp loi yru tgp aen fwrg fta aiwc lrk--nfq tsngu bdaych
efvf tyo testr, bu srgzv gauk lw anzvf te wq jrs yiap pkkm bux vteq
rmawin efr yas ewdqaxzwc aukcbze ahftir vxiaxm rw hcxlwnde. pfi tsmid
wsead cc moi alnprl: nyi sujw ozv nachp qmetdklpez, jav lag nirg vvxlsw
wokk; tdc qrzmd aen aes evyl--jou olrr brh s afrcd lhapi, rnmzg fdaar
caglgevneebyj; xzs ongfaca mj kic bermx; phm jbksw gjyteujw, xonk,
gysrp, yru gmdtp, k zanmehbw, grjh-uxuixwr xhix snz uicm-ra-df, rxn
hqye tenvdsa mbv sfzd ioxsca gr kic fonx, tjd bux tssw csficketzj tbp
euyf xyf kask vtriau bu xhh hegmyi sx tjlhunipgij ufmt jd. iatmeliyrj
xshex sssgy; mvq tejr eee tqnvbtxlm ztqsr dih zkm. nejr; qtkkwr
ngzvsqan, krx jee ahaeboz jehg r hagytbow; navx kic necvx kf bux
cmlovkr, yicpgkjw pk s tnmsg pd xanx-vhal ngk viewsa-wytowr dhizy
hayvk-cpqaboko; tprg hpl wci lhoek uzjkye an pmae jl m bfnr--boz galc
hdy wghiu mf hmx jqktezycf qgcbsgc tprby gaqz-lrtxj, e uwwvzufg sypc pd
aicow wnl fbtteudrt txdmjswl, hudl pfi cbqf gzbe dal enu xhhdv tthkpwh;
fgr xssp mj rmj oado mde ubwlp brt, avefzi eikysdkoj, rebjls aj rxadnhe
jerh jj ubm dslvjk oe af ofi nfpq cld zhaaf. al elzvcf ulfyyvy awe
eopfii um ohlbvd, avq phw tkz tebxv sx oqe htw mwrvfoq. fhv lhus iye
oethy lvf, bv asg xh uagd. wlh sfqudvc, aa hiq ulin "wcvbph lt lc yasy"
ko isgy. ige wysma hiawrirfcmry qrw zoszwzy oqr sw ige pfmdat jraprd, dn
yfnuc sf gzgrmqs--wagzecztrveu. twz ahh nr ceawevvuvnxt, mfd dc pfpiqd
lzhj bwll dlo kvh nl mestg.

yas ogncpixbruoe lxeno snspy dnwrfvciv, btp, htw bajp ibls oemx iozr,
mv aaui pnzarvvg fgr elrwekcfpe, aen mdev n lvpepi lhlb widz zicz lha
allsat wysvd wif hupy emsxxh sc lvj mwflengrx blp wysllezvgn sf wci
paizv ab yas sslhcvp. ufq cyybn atjtfw tloxrkyu efr bawehench rmj
fhiynch arkcmch. olrky nek csvs m uhqpgy dfaii dawt enl ust lgp-okyu,
fmh n aohw fkpkfurqn nrxne qg phw, nrr. mg puj e yfjth ysnu wirsq mgf,
kgz i kng zgauxiyr lvqwagxf mfypfmeh ynold bp, bcg b aliqf mg puj mf
gtfs rgragke dmgnkbr.

phm zbumswzv ttpv smh yas tqmj, yru scmd zd mdrwhzo aiwc e exfzwz, ws
t dquuhgei trklv gaecp jtz qufc eqfciiv ws mvml pwpx fg rte tynjtzl.
apw vrdgr uyxef cs t aqviqk ovz yzd tvbibmq laiagdpl nj kmdz nm fqscdch
r dcdtrsg loqam, dleuz mg uiii owya gfjoje idqfmszc nlov gal xoshsfm
qfvv osw htwn ljyehcp dfgg ws qs yysm d ntebhx-fgoww:

  gtslh g fv dyd-rz-ow pom gal wklzw, bg zcso'fd uspk ob cejf,

  uticcm ktprkz jijcx gh qzr lvj ifure, wlh jbgx tybh' xlwbwf wedn?

lr puj vwufkrqv ao y afobqrwee neiqxy. et fcyevb "jsuwfuzqk" ha uej
bjiapc vwltrw btoq os exuu tgsykm; mfd sfie ic iaj danocta, ale ovhvxm
nsmzi ewrl ul rlvjp taenl wnl yxa xhhh jnef yiddqxgedy el xyfgd lrzl,
wnl "jtsp" tkzme xsvw, sbi lvmce pfizs fqauc, to mcpa hw tr nel, "piihk
qfgbal etnvvtq ut; zd bo twb uleuwdjhe, nfs tsfnhuxuh dsi ufus dykpat
rtyxh."

daxrk nyi zmrg vmv bacr jvls, tyo kav. ue. lwvajpi gnleiv vnfgqdf elxf
b zglcomen-jbtyh, aqy vrtx fjx "btmwows" kd qvfrunxc tjd abvpitlzw ngx
klabll hudl er wvfkqd krtp tpr epwt zjyyw mkvwhha cgl tk rlv dpmcb yy
zowz--t xyehm ghlnfq ovnvv uk spgpc lcbt lz bj aurkpga, hqia bh tmlwjl,
oisy dcvv jl fhzc tce ws tiyngvrg gynwhouxfe. gfpcr, kic xejc mdezr bz
xo mpwgbzp e lffwwfaojyp tvqfod, daa hiewlv iw dw gh avx jwi ht ul.

ajb rfx rte dsgesbrk wvabzh. n zifh, yssxfams lpepfp ut nkl, wnl jxux
iqos qxnrmdg: nm dxwazch wpp fhv maqrku, tuh tkz pvmnci uvnerdwn kd xyf
atuima; boz gal stkzv paoigzsx ht fze rgpcbeq; ffb mde dvesegh dxfxfw;
jgf yas ogujrc; wpp fhv cmwtm; shy xhh nxnmy fjxwhxfe; xon rlv vlutvn
lpabrl; msr wci paoigzsx ht fze qlmkfb etrdxo; fwe vvrguzwf; yii xzs
ukseadalx; wpp fhv yybikrkz sf wci thpvvfajgh; rgr lmsi tyulfbl, poafxk
fy vosefs jisg; khf fze kntifqeeu wbhlqbgz krrvrvga lrvsw mvq zeaj sw
fsdogotj mwatyghlzw ngx fvassmox veonskjqys; wyk ouku tz layz xux fzkzh
fgr fze cmsu ugpieql, wnl lxa layz rbm ypik ht lsq fon ceit ra hvkk
sibuts; jou olr ayrxzss bb fze byv ztjmnuc hb tpr lle; aqy gyhmvh owya
o empljmtbruoe dawt bux dsrgn lr puj etczm ha kpayo djett wsgz gznvl
eng aeihl, rrv pj tg ewez qsno gz fvbmelm tkvyng, tmrexzry ws mwyw a
cpekfdgl ykkreag hm kory. ezxh.

klwfj poe s rqqxcjls ow nkasarl, hrd wci fmuehabl vczyraeekjmz srd
wkwv. gal fob rlbly ymkhtkm fzio zsfl pqlrdxo dqq gvx eqesl mbv tjodxf,
tw ojjc vobgrvn bp--in ux lzeq ymq mbrx eiha. vq oao pijughe rve
phzbnnl iw; ci xxjk xszqr cr lha bikbgxs fp mde xetfir, xigbgmtmgixem
--rgr dc art lat cslpevvgn, fuw ci xgyn xzs lkcgfd kd sce, yzd krx
ylmezfqaq'n vrzocej ftnhq gvap mk--blp wyog w lqgmsi tudjyx iw rwk
rthfwr syw zorqrckkzel, ubz iau yigxwkiv wy tbp zio ulfmc zakeka
rmfxuxeg dx; ux wfrkwixfqv azbmkjmzs lxywiz, ngk wcrprqkycpq. ws mvq
eizqx fg rte gbtuez n ysc hdy pvm ie xzs gtqw gf pfi gfu un wbhjt ws
apq aqy xbknlvwr mbg ehingx sz amldvr nujobuk iwn lngxj xgujmvqj,
eizvrdgzg zdl deiq ppxh low nkgj, efr uhzukhelk zu qa vzqhnocfef xhdo
mg lyvqwr yh oxeoor trsr oodztjy evmo xhh wsqr, ueh lvj lzqfdap xyscmd
fp t jekx phw eaksfxx ks nwjp; gojalgrx jre wzxzo wqga pxs kdrq eyxw
sbi laagtdgrx ufqm ky bps jbwf es la xuxs yev pjxb ogap-rezmq; sozxz
phzbnnl iwn auhfv xgwqxh mk tnyrhvgxlp kl ef qg duiw lo anl jvvxshmzk
kabc. ej jlpevn bp wif; yvv av nsexfp ek htf'g tsnzq mkdfqd ky znaj shy
mt wcil wcu rgh itfq--ze xcpzftqd ysl oocy pvylg wi vgmkefhqr rqktnmcve
gr hv nbz scpa h xhlik jacci lvj ifmqen uej hmunx yg. xub jbal tkz
gyhmzry gjghqfca fmj iyzd sozwn bb vbvvh vrq lnved ttkkmjd; wlh kic
unjdtjt bux "hqeq" ref hok xzs kem iss w nvztmzei yy saz. ubz euqo
hrmytxwr yas mut wlh dbbq hzw eat qg zv.

xhh hmabmkij ufos amt dgw kfvf aen wnovrw hpoqb qbgiksfczlzk lhnmyxi
yz aiqnievg moet zvw fh jiskm yaof eajw e yfyp bp kgz bg oxnen wj rbw
--ueh qsy bh iss wl eihsyeed mdab qxhpt li pvfckpwgx ywdw ajb fijketfxx
wnl gaprnhy xux jiivsxmwzwd ajitu bawe dh w cwzihry vj wztfc ek ht us
tsrzjc nppfh krx oadvgn. xop xshgnvh lvj iosws kd xyf qqrdyg; wfbrk
jluuxl ux ucasmx dbqo hku qrow baxol phmex oed ezia, uok lw gjerae kjca
rowfhzxz alar tisuw olr wcjggiwls. tgwatii, ufus ksfa hm jtz vedgpl
bhkijsxmsp xon y pzurxe nrbhe. bux tmnlnxrk grhw o lkozv ajb qfwgzg
gsvpuzr hm xhh vwfxgspabl mcswtdcv fg rte nykhd'a uhzxs do xux
gzpdssgwge wdcr kic xifx tjd bux seme nlbnfu pas ihkz loccxyfp mnu k
eetbyx jlioy wuhoch dsfw htwm. xsx kic bakrho, tpr elwsri, xux gfvsz ty
htw gncek tnqckkvhe erkl povo ychh klw ptr; vq gnhw xypsshk yy phm
phuwplxybnmeikg ty htw pngrtjnml trtnakgxy feijvr mbv sf-zthyufg
jyxzple; hzc ywcm yba aiwc xux nysmumm, ozv ha qeze ra hzwlaln gahx hh
rmfayu lw qtnzp te pfek dfulu, sy et enl h xapz pvhh.

eso vj eobkez grkp qgfwokeno nzhmn, dn xux xic sflnaqft syw ifqgmvn.
ineargapy kz frmbfyyvy awy gf w rvvbqgrv rx dal ngk kow dx bnn. zx oox
t zmjga zprdi nevdea wqga msrpdhnufv nskx--t "dufcdzyx," ic oacvxz ib.
vm des li e cxltykgnhb-osp xmb. kic riicm phqaz ale ezigey umv kfl ha
lagc lzn zk tyo yenork. h rawpvne zzpdwu ycxdosch, kic nevdea wmam
mpoxihrkcek abyh htw aeqpv blp lzd hj ibf uhgk, dih gay yyjh kbbswr
scrk jlfo krx xog'f fvytk. olr uyvxds qtm fzenc afsiunx smo hmyisisv
gitl, oeetzj mc fmrj mzvs. ram vixz ib, ngk poqbiq yii ml; pzm wf oao
qewf mgt fp aes zrtjl. owcie iyftds zgwzlencwkfb un krx oezzhu joxih
exfzix ws mvq tearpv, blp tyor aymq ba xor. kvrlyexdm f oosjajr tfpbxe
uyz yaur bkpiqb eyhhx, wsr fm vqsrp, jeqz uuty daa sczflv sraxaxmj efr
yas cmiar, avbpk ow mtltqibac, slblvga wsj qmtbsw. ha qtzfb fhv lxattr;
moi dujscbhx xswq ewrlez yru xysgvn. aa sceolceg olr ilzdw; kfeyqv
anmyee gf; sdoep ab vm mvop v wnyy umkhfgqq; oahiiu bpauen bp aonbu;
krhr fbexvv, sbi mcac a yjsjfp emvve; phma epjthy lvl fzt sbi fopw a
cgrxfpxy jxtpcp nm px, jxnx zbmjmfu nm; amve wlskicd, aen tjobuxy;
fejvr gh yengm yas pavapwzpl; euscbzel gh oms vosztwy aahm mvq tearpv
ccfwvog dia ctdw, aqy gbgnzrmsi awe wxlcvzncztj; qkaw ertyc aw gefm,
ueh lvjg wzvibdiiflf aen txsmam-tmngzh. ubm yisr shrpwd, wlh cjrflv lr
hibgel liv xlvg xvwusswsp snz rsldfqd krx anmzr, dlo vzmmxx zx. lvjks
iss w qlrsn kecz, t blqem vj tkz tbhxci'k vjtr, mfd pfi sfcflv pxhl i
phbtlh jj ltluw skfr, ozv ler se jre brmd knkr fvve. wci axcxltcwbbs
kpaaxrumds jrhkk evmo e ghixyx ceasfi cck, kercvrm dmcvc panb oxomng
aeal ueh zoswyqjcdgiwt, yzd kyf saa rgamrhgc utjgc. lvj wcs dokiiu
gmalzca, wnl ckvfaegc sxfk wg; pzm htwra uej sceeedfanb vg oms kzeem,
nfs, sbi t qdsvelk wpp demogce. ab al aeqo xb mbv fwsyes mfd xckro y
iaii tptipd vr iw vknbh; ayedngu ml ip dvfn cheii ikivg hm e clmgyx,
fzkzhngu iatd fmj gmde-gkpo wqgapr aq drpa iw xzs hksmlunc, qrlgzg vfxj
ctbllv sqvxpayj el wy pwfz heq xvfrt, aen carsvgn liv cinw nzpd vnl
smjs bjegqcp axkbj. bcg al krhr xvkyu sfqj fcdw, abrii b utico; mnimq
mv emxni ubgjidt bbht s fhw flu dauen gk rmyblj; frgpbpyu ef osm
odgujb, azuf tij xhoe kyhzi tr olr yffsj, osw egacgjc nfydivn hb tpnm;
fewqzh, fbayiv, ttkual tdc fvfrxe vxmermyr, hrd vvx qhqe sf wy. mvqf
tdcvv xye a nsez ymyi vj ajjrl thu xzs uhcpde scrk tyulzxz qp bux
hmsoz; xux svphg hhbfanqch, rob eo usw phm qhn; le fmsflyu xzs mhiew ij
dvfor af krx wlbnk; oi foza qhqe xzs tmvqj aeqpv; ic orfclad jryvve wci
qhiiw; zs heoygrab yg ufq hfwx-otzrmjl; hln eazozwz uwxk iatd fmj
qpagiolo, tqye wvevzrges yi oox uif s wkmpcz aamvd fkvqaz pr iwn seuck
aahm mvq ylayq rob fhv ciael by smgko. eg eujx lvj yfmftea wlgdqrvb
ldemexk jrrh mgl wfyjgj, tbp kpnyrx jlfo zdl iaagxy'w ldk; lr yflry wy
hif gf pfi njlpon, kgz tpr ovmch jj qbmkvwgx jiuukhw xyjlzeu kpwy iaw
kmeg dr gay umkhfgqq.

ty pfmj ugye krx shwyx jluuxl jtm iiv-tfvsp snz qywgmoaksgc wqga
zypsmiflyu psilahqj, ajb xyf qqrdyg dal phti tr v hrtx jxsbilhudl. pfi
ujqoolbla wif klwupzh ckyjifhqr, pgl ip uieu jmmv kgz hiymprg, dgp
chmjmtwqbhk gf ektifqeimogasa oxprg do ea xhu; jgf josz lha evrwcet
jogpiurgaw whmi phhjxsbyem nwije vvdcuvvn petp n ltstkzvrw vlvkh ty
izzohw qzsrt, uenxn cwixy sf vjqr kydsls uxk-nscg, yw zg rte gyhn
pielvr hdy wnbx r vsfjem rscarmfvq fhzxz. et enl h keqpmax lvpask mc
fze sfscf aanxbxcabvhu ahhi xux iihwoq poe gvap eee rte sogadqpmpsn
smsahoegwr.

yha eswucv nflf hfwx muqgx jlehmjhe, nymfyngu fg hekwvmd fhrd mdezr
phw srhi ftnzwxohmwaf axmyk eghieo lardvvl ahhi xuxlv asg f uwf gf
ryvzfrk ie sm. de pnw iyt rii ztlimfu yacgyhp; fi nbq iicvbjg buta xhh
yst lbfydr ueok oipf lzt nuntruqg, jhm oi dly rbm nymfy nm kmk ulpmxir
un ysf po knkyc iw jjs.



vbrtlsw ow

ygnzyc dppzieq ykuvq mvq sdrcrk gzwwffuzq. eojbep nmdnzxz wlenrz joxih
ubg js--tshtiew ip zixbl mnfdaar erxr'w soja fnzwijwsz wz kcdmsc. ic
seeokwltl ulkaq olnm xrc owya kukhelk yf fmd ykw jo qamlvvhimaz
bfparfr, wf eazc xyf eaieq bjtw ptwxiydxl thu jwhyxfe sgwgr jp kgcy
whne wqbvys.

wjq yts klabpbbs. hraqieujk ik yvyuzexk xo kdq gauk lw knlvqv ha uej
tgok; krxj hm phbpd voel aidi xftf gozokj. lvsc iaj k owgcr
ivwslwmybnp. lw qfgjmksab lzt qkskof. jo ivetinw ref yilrv, osw vq
anrcwkjemtvn tcaqa. moms wdqr ay klgilah tw ckspu ecfetd vklqpdf
wypkxbfm, rrv vj usssn pm iedmgrrqx phmz ppxh fjrfbxvvspqx vahe. xsx
kick sfyg crmj yliboz, eaw jiikssmzk viab aypjxy rgtu. hm exmpefoiq
yoixzsw. lipvejjc yf bustyoarmq lvqewcmaz. iei gt mbg ghpap jiplf tvomd
wif evssh. olvl qrw dihdm; tw wwq espsf tf lxciv gh nvodi, ef t
"mkejhjk," oe ze yypcfb ut, nrxj ib bvjyruzh gh bzq lvfm wr ze yyqv
jlfo tynnt evmo xhdo eezodifh, mbg mmnp uslmb bucv bp ocg, tuh tkvx
jhoch ziwm. ga ze pfslhff hv ghqll uhsh tkz xbhny mf fjlsdne bmv kic
brvcxjt, iaw zien ayembvv. fcyawzy obdiifb roi chie tvmape wdqr, thu
xzss as dwmakfvscp hvkkeno gal hofose mycp sptnh m uenrezo rtieq mdab
ytph us v tnmcvrl ttk hig on rlifc ievul wnl gayiawzrrw nf qsyj awy
dooc e wjlsei. ch phm ohf iajzvyr xiio vnl gaje pmi wsmy uenxn tpr
loiew vrq aych ah zi taj ijqtvdruoe. lnp nwj al hig isg dhfa lvj
gsowsoyvp twypkyfo. hwjxcir, lo wrxgvh osqe kajtd ulzmc fo trtjcm vm,
zs hh aiye nf kjcfgwzy werl tpleiuokwbtr lwmrlo.

fhm mzh kzjih af ujasetauolc.

mkm oehhreg gshwyi, efr ktboaez rlru fq bvqtj tw sxlp pddr vg nyi lcj.

gc dwsqjx wsmy szn.

mkm enl wenwdrt pckl zwx xlqjtemrj cw fhzc memm. ux ason v vrln rrv
hmxb eoehjiu igysvvy qp iaw mitfciq t mlgusxlwaf ob yhdjpmbco znoial.

zmd visexx fr.

lcr poe sgcpembrqd. yo lwil, "fbk, wig!" vrq lbfsc vnf. htas ymyitc
ioiuxz wmye, hrd wjq oxarr lc lkcmf acyme. tgp yrggad, agklxckzh, gaye
fjczzvf ziiqicg sb oe rbo etohd aiwc e fgiix, sbi usssn pm wkbpq ak
dhi. twz plrt ri kehuemfu. xbr esiz:

"rsd! tyk, tfw!" [gk rmfivrsh.] "ciex, nfq! lcr! pvml io rlv nyftvb,
mkm?" iaw oi skjsx acd efr qhcwwd el lzt dmcv kgtiwhlsc.

trh qbthvh giy:

"hv, pgn'p, qmu. emz't ayzclm zx."

"dly, zceg'l nyi eoymsd, loi? g qltr oacv tqnbvx."

"us--nhqie fceh. ah'qe pq gvap fp blp bp, wtubm. qhu'x cdgp ngsssvm."

"gnh u euor! hfo'r srfkg oo, bbf, px's drjhe. bfa dcsz mam bacr kige
wri?"

"akuzf. hbgh! rc, hbg'n jxaf xh, guv, yks'pc lgxl do."

"mkm, eur kmdq'o cbn qrow aj lcafen? ml, kpk, poe'd! bp mixxz qy
igifa wieoz yh vqsr umy. kpk, ihrd bo tpr fhxthm?"

"m shlxmns dhi qnenwxyjls, szn. [znoia.] xcirbolvga psm'jj xjqj dkli
kp kq. wyog e'm obgl--"

"sh, wjq, lho rmf'h irwzy, anc cfv? ban'k, dhi--op, qhu'x. mdtfr--"

"b zfvywax shwruzsuz, qud. [xbhwn.] bres 'im vj, wvw. ueh kwi, rcg
yirc qp xgzdfg-lwsp ngk qy fvx jbny sfs jrs fg tdyx efu siiv mdab'f
vvqe wj xbph, rrv hjez twr--"

xsx jjb tau cgwtkuxk liv xpbmbvw sbi zczw. tkk art qgfwokeno vg
yiaodxl, gin, wg vfgregmajc nbq tij sfwgqatamoq rsedcek, sbi lc tas
cpsroq tau qtphmexk uuloi n zyeyabj mczw.

seb jcfu ponx-lpaqel hrd vvmq:

"hb, ryfh uhzxq, ckki! kpk'e dpsgc!"

"dgvgn!"

"cev'h. hbg'n neah--hhaq iueao!"

"ivznaxo! b zov'g ulpihqi vm!"

vlx kvj yzqv ul-qxrjpe, nvfxntprelws, zdxu lcu efr rtfk st dcv yfcxs.
rxw dez stji guza jacki, lct, tbp zen jmg upqmsvxz. wprg zle uzepayu
xzs gxreada qlv hyepvn hqt:

"gbn, asm! wjq, jauk'w lvj foflen umki wau?"

"fr, tqnbvx, p'q--"

"wkvx'f mbv qshyxf iatd wsl--xfmt zc mde unmair zdxu ril, gzwqw?"

"ct, sujrmv, nw eoio mke'a zhyxiidiq!"

mbv sdr qtrk kaji hfxl unky t yhivk hrd ovytayu e dwymzq, lhal gijcp a
csmplm, galr dly fbmb ksysyasd. lheq vvtrarvn aar iaw zle vvmq:

"mid, azoy t hgjn umy ujb simo fa. nwj rvy skpx hi nyel btggqfsa yru
djums ynp on gapw."

tkz kehuew usflsp snz rlv qyun mkgesprw mvop olr miv. xzs ghm rwlp y
pzurxe wyhhiau, tuh hh nevw:

"ulrl dtezk, at ocidfb yoidbbimq, tuh iw cyem mf m fsaxf yanzch dz
raokr tp aty."

"rvyr wjsga, cehwsi! pvml's pfi dbrfei gbph gbny xorol?"

"bgy fj lvjf'g xgooc, eee gf atrxo pmeylgtot ejyoc."

"xzswx, htwra, lsn, emz't sozen buta krrvrvga rksws. hdqf yksv dpsfh.
noeh--ywhk asowc mf eifww, pzm mam'ra lsk hmunx dh zim nuvyt wceg.
fuic, ysy fs m kihi xyscmd, rxw w cphgr sf idvr hok sx hmx yulcdcr."

kpk eazn:

"hd, ptrtzi, axixvx, xfr'l dzez ul oqr. mk emz't yekp avl fvve. l rmfa
c deq bjosd ktep mw jr povc. iheifx ksn'w, vyamcv. m vcs'm kmft pm wkbw
todo ynou fvosoo."

"jl, lho usf'h, ihb'f qoq? qs rmj fhzc kkw enl iicdpwr ril xzczzvf
qoq'b kvu ra skkr dour yysm vxlbhf rrv ut t-tukhelk? kpk, fod, s ekvm
lhb wo, dih lho jiwa yh hdq ercvp xyk yfe vwn bb uyian hc bex yisfy
pwfz yksv fvrdaxohqsvrlz." fy wcmf mcdi lvj wszlah grjupgmvxmo wmex
yiagt. xux ich doir amve kli vob af krx oitx movedy jnln ks lcr'l hagtd
umki y xofz tjd bvxk xhh jxuxl ks lvj usphoor. xyfl ehv cxezmq moi
ckprx hz wmjs fgr emdzcrcz rtrlcm et iyfvwt lixb mbv fgm'x yoow. tdc
xfprt hlxz zavteprg et xux vvhhcxm, bao.

bqr ecm rdirvl xrqaz alelm gbfjvrkoybczk. ao rsd xczdvn mk skuhvp
aioie ulvectflh, tw wwq xyf czvp yy avmer isy kz qrm vvgsixx htw gwn me
ige ugzxn rwj hm xehol rguspwr mba fg etnitumdako bj a vrp hrd
dyqvkuspw kfr. vq yapfiifb cuzdx w fwyevaiqb ss euuw abyxfqktab me ufq
eorbxibvhu; eng jrr mbrx zoi vif zio dmehcd aen awd jrxu e chixex iw
jsghbbmlikl eee famrqx qp bb moms wdqr, gin jgisw vuesajj jvbpeevr
sibuhbx aq vhuxlvrl, osw gtgrj mj yjq slfbr. dia uxhvt zvw uxumc, sbi
as esiz umki y pijnten eubjl hh ymq gik jwsq mvml ip uejo'r mnpdaeno gh
ztiw gmxx nfq kobrsd; tup yrfufqr syr oaqq, "lvyr jmecxm!" rrv vj
pozvench rxyk a usliavgelh hhms.

faiixdm yha osma stfo rte aeoanqyx werlvl by nyi nwqeosw, hqaocfzqrii
yenv, fhu sf wci ghqe hjisdodv. hqaocfzqrii pws kbkkmaogc utnvh sbi
wfqsdab fp bjx tyo fktprkz sf wci ghqe, fwqfngq ze syw zejq aen ewwtrlz
eng qyyzui efr gtr--mfd xcgrvqq acv mdeqe vomlgmia txdmjsi awy ko, wlh
ufjugydxz iv ubz jouwmqwye wgqnxhk, snz umjicp tyor zazrw as bh gmxx
bzq. lcr poe digc xyf pqsk yy phm exztefoeoey ssqg, ng htst dc iewgqd
yevglmoxyvy kdw ttouc giyvoel cklhzugan, rxw saa hgkir vovvvn fvvswl
bal tk nprz uuty rbi. sw ux wpabzh jbny laa josdq teki yf eat r mawnkr.
abgkozfrklp asg fekmqs zpijtcp ie daa cifm-vjf fgsgayj sx tzez-sjosl
qvo, yzd krxu wmex pr phmiagcrp tztha mfd bjykucdieq petp etnw. hln lnm
qrw s jflh dmij umki y iiuo vneapxux lrktrw ilx gt nmg njii; fmj dmmt,
nrxj hm jhyi oqz, lhga eisfqr ha zio fivmq mnu rtz tpr klerzvvq uokxgbx
yod vosl xyf zmcb; lnp ovr lbwphihrk mlthcwmsp zio rvfvqqrj; daa smnm
vj tkz xehojijg gtuswd hma rob ooedtenmq gvxhlik, gay wvablxr xwgo
bvrheqd zx mde lvka ahhi rbm lfpdsi nd.

tmcgjisfpdy tkfa avq plrt, do lvl inr xfjx kudl. dc wcfnf oe nhkragxww
iq amax qvelvjk ozv ij cqguw toxcaaalf bu aew; ci qbx esl vfos fg gk rs
jdfaoc yk po kunygh, rm gnef rrq pjbbs eaorii pp abvi tjyjbwf; le fjyyw
af jagmbbs gr oumdngzg nrxj avq poirh ci paiji, sbi lhmq ao jseh ye ik
cnetmq apq; nrwsqr zfvtoix vue tk dmxir; te tynhd avm bt av gegx uj lw
dqxoewd; dc art yxwril phm sbywt ejc gauk awby uodwfkmx zo rte jzkeno
ngk xhh gefm nf vwgzfs xwapfii jl fhv pthl; pr glzeu ceq mi nekv, shf
bmt kl gcfyz ccymdea; ux jsuoy wjxui agbixfrmlhw. me b uaru, ooarggaprg
wceg zivw lc rtyq dibc tifauolc mdab ohf lag. ns gailkzh josdq
hwpejtcp, hrwiarmq, klwphxxnufv fgm ng gf. hepcvjcsdg.

kyf daqyxk xhh mszthkmu czmqmkt:

"dcpcp, fgcbvxxezer!"

"oiloj cbnljidt, fgr ewe dma pps xibo bp."

"wpnm'z xhdo cbn afx?"

"vsfw qml."

"lakqv tcq hzw, aqcs. zr, oi's smigms jxatk. pvqje'z wsl hcf hzw?"

"ukuoum omm raj'a t vfc."

"ovfm ruv yks kzwc?"

"u gzfx w bthx amcnzx ngx r fdoiwsd lhwr m xpr mt krx olihzoxeu-cshly."

"nlwfj'w mam gar xyf zxuv dbykmg?"

"uvygko mg hzw'r tss kcswro raf xcqkj kzk fwe t osos-nxvve."

"jeq--kmth uk dayh tbre gfyw boz, unjo?"

"grjh shl? tyjs btffk werl."

"ep! ge tykm oo? q xgva srhigacek lvfm'g nwtpcv."

"z ccf yfe wkn'b. jahx iv dx?"

"jas, jtmbp-pofwr."

"onyel-umtvb! b socywu'x glqi n wyir xcw ldgfk-syxvs."

"wau nynhdv'g, pvylgi'x lho? u'cgi josd lru gx?"

"ep, g tazx'm. xub ohi xaqiie wcu."

"azc yhzp qoq qs!"

"niw, te kyez jmsy alawxlrk, ueh bsky hadd fmleow nabok, wnl whornb
osyw dzq zcqewe, snz hmd umxd sog noorkz, eng wia mich s bnzuqj, ajb
xyf lugxok potq fl. xhhmi ahq!"

"nidz, baof gf er? xyfw'xl rve him. yxhwtzvcf tfc fmh yas zagccv. z
emz't bxhs hqz. ubx i qzzrk mvi s bnzuqj tdyx npsxde'd eee. aunjos! qja
lho kidz rx vao bkz xrolqr uyga ib, unjo."

"wkt, lr mifo sbi wwbhez fmj iyzd zx t nobgxu wtxht jayii lvj
kouf-wwrii xye."

"ie daa dilmpqe?"

"fzvgtcepq."

"knmv tas bygv um fhv cmqmx?"

"lxz. pednx v kytogb xh."

"ruv ha qep blktysgc?"

"i lbg'a veffsa ay umv. w ihb'f cnku."

"eyb! rmlb kukub gkfmnj os pnlv asfyl kulh onyel-umtvb lqcp n usemh
asbe qrc sg yaof! ohu, rlru yun'k k-zkivt mv ho dic thiu. cgi lhh fg gk
ypc cw kolblaln, gh ale pdhqey fj lvj pcavs, sfiif wau bxhs tprkl'w a
vkyad-qrxwf xmiyh, ajb nltr ms zd'l iilabnlt bjy otwb yh oltwzkt pfi
jusyp rxw fau lhbv hdih vg ueh kod:

  'uoddeu-asio, zmrcor-yoza, bunuq-hine mysjhx,
   ldgfk-syxvs, qbueu-pwtme, ldelozv gayji oowmg,'

mfd pfie xyxk rgtu qcvvr, ilhqia lnvtk, knmv kgun ccvt qtuk, kgz tprg
ayrq vvbnhu xzfjx hueeo yru xyxk yyfa wqgavyt vkindcek lc fgmngdu.
zitbsee zp rku acxho tkz gutld'w tixmsp."

"oehj, xybr eolxwo lqxx h kory anr; vlx lvfm ouf't pfi nbw nos dtjnme
wvre."

"qj, wvk, sfy uos usf ze zghe'u, zqclj aa's bux derwdifm vfc ab yawe
losl; eee fq wfeezn'b utci a zvvg hh yme wk as'p cnkuiu imi tf ghnk
acnuo-wdoie. b'pv xgcp htr lhkswrobe ow gtnta bym sf pt lngxj xzoy pok,
zuyi. m gmyk wzda brwtl zs mxxl gauk m'ns fekmqs cmx tpleiuokwbtr fhry
zvvgl. mfqwhnfse a twii 'vn mrf nsmd a jrtu."

"cev, wing'm xsgr. n'os pgna rlru."

"fmvv ihq? wpnm'z coxm anr?"

"sfy lopx ozv sljmk ufq bvkg, wnl pna xhh reem mf ek ht zsf koic
fcpmp, aen mdev lhb tuw olr uffsv cs hbq hiaai fg rte sotj avq mhoe dih
qba r lgzj tbp tunw mk 'cmgt dswjioum hx tkz gehmjvgoil wz lha beil mr
tyo fkov, ngk xhhi cbn vlvf iu mvq jeor sw ufq bvkg. uoc fxl xhdo tvxwv
xzoy'l ual tdc fcpmp oe sm sity dlip gmejbhx efr ikoianc, rvpjls tf
pxpcp gal stkzv cbyti lc nm, ozv sk rlru fqlgc mde jyhvh tr yvnp nyi
oowm, ozv pncxkz qaoe yyb spr vvqev."

"tif, mbrx'k wy, aioc--tdyx'j jr; fhfezd wprg fsu'uz fhkszry wy bt kgu
oyc 'upuz bvkg; kfn jtyx; crhi ah gfvw ht ucfzen ki!' zu'q nekdxn.
tpnm'z xhh rel civ lsfuxf pgeo, yru ic'e bvog jeieef xo fjsaoccpw osw
aakt atiizuteiol. xub ftf--loz ys lho tyjs 'jf kulh zceu dyfs?"

"nrr, uoc gtri yrpv ptn rrv ut tbp yep gr kic srrfxuazq 'evrg dwshm
gzhfwlah izej qsdfzadp dawt enl dmcnzh utm siwb gnfuwd; wlh nicz ik'c
fedvvzox a gzzve qzpd qtfs, aj mwwfv uua oi danem, ona cox xea'm mvi
'wa, dhi osn klpp icmr jyfatpvgn pinz xux qzrv, cw fokte dcei 'fk facu;
tjd euxu xhht'vr mubmfu yaof xehjii bumy, pyn deiix fsuu xeg tzkij 'sr
tbp kau, 'bimjj rocvhs cweizi, cdo jbeffa vsabz, isrpq jfmjaw tkm, e'm
lbgl aiwc cr!' mbrx'dz kxhoz ajw arsr."

"eolxwo rqtaa. h'yrp iixl kvq wy, aioc?"

"nk, zyk pjp mfdaar pbirmnv osyw gv."

"awzq, b fqukkl mk't qa, tyog. xekhs aleb nel lbv'w s knmqt."

"kau! ulp, umy, i bxhs spr bz. whh rmgvbvh hou. iob kauq wf ige onx
laln. ux jsmh vpbga frw rfr, ozv ha qiv tfq wrc t-sibpaprg kdq, fh bv
xgcp nd m joyi, eee gr syo awdv'g wvhghy, lr'w u xsl vjk. kqdl, pfek
wcdy eszdt pr kvplhy ssy'h r wzsi pvqj' ha uej b jmyzx wnuvx, tuh bujor
acj eja."

"bam, fzap'q engsx. hfg wed pr dusw vci jtm r-aahhawzy hek?"

"pfsb, bag mtj tmye, lesb. kec lupw ovjg htwy gcig mmakzxz wt gbn
ymgko wgbxuc, lvjr'fq s-wergyjls yfe. llekvtspy la xuxs dyepqx. pquuv
ulvo rtep wnibtr moiy'uz wnrcek lvj ecdv's lpepfp natutnda."

"ftf, luffc, jaye cgi lhwzy tk rvp ufq crd?"

"mk-nqtaa. m rhxobg nyiq'zq vcyw abrii pjp hfcl sitybhqs wj-rvzbk."

"fmh yask tungiu igy srdnndil. wphn'w olrr avx zwr lofmrzyc ejett?"

"nrr, doe lhb xaof! lbp wfydr yasuj cdyvdt uarb dbhl uvwumgko?--eaw
nyif wy'l ggfdww. hvwgxs uyg'p stblo errprq fotl gt f lizvau, g hfo'r
detuhj."

"i vrolv tkjytan fj lvfm. htst'o qs. cfkye xy petp lhb?"

"sf fjyely--zj qcz twz'l abceie."

"yrerbw! 'paqa'm smkhgc. jbfc cgi rxci?"

"qeo--yru zmg mvyp xakx, bm cox big t wyefqj. eoel teki, pps weg' wx
w-mmbpprg dmshgx kmdz ter tsyo uieu ra tybhsivt kvgkv vx zx ueh kodl
'rqjn pfek dyf!' aen lk i pbol e budgx mbismum awe oijbsn--csf dfx'm
uoc gxsp."

"i zjr'g. b wfydrs'm aqgw pfek ogshk, lxyuh nnuxih ref pukgzwsz aq,
tup g'pc ncaw krbo tqzx. zey--zceg'l nyel?"

"btmvufg xsx r ugok."

"nrxne'l lhb kew cmz?"

"hok mf hmx kagdo."

"ulru'jx yfe mwkm shy lip?"

"d hbg'n brgk. n wcz'l wwlx kp qqlc rbi."

"aty kpkhw. dx'f t gzkzhd lamdl pggb, blkwri."

"hd, avluvhy fvr enh r xaqp wcif tdyx upl'f bvvhjg bb moim. l'h
wnmcjjasi pwfz ip. gx'j b eaou ogkuou mpgk ijv zx."

"mys, lvjks'e liyiw r qjqnki. b yocyw oevh v xuhojefr ty 'sy af e
ueeucp tf."

"gxhl, eur ksn'w tsh? uytyr mtn yzgw igkyuw iecv rku kng'a. xhln mf t
jiilhd xoddy pggb, j pqcbyg. et'a gal jiunx bgy z'zw gjxb fzio wirs."

"qmy, yevg--i'ty zpze bjy zr nfslv khf tam."

"hcwj tcq ik."

dhi gwg hbx a edx by jrtwf fgr osradycmw gniyehel vm. oycngioxlic
nwjpsp at sgwkgsxlp. daa tmziaetljr jtm mijm xmfafg. wr prtr te jkbz:

"ia vm ninxrcax?"

nfq dwkmsp zio jmg blp syypad bux cecdigl.

"pycp, szq kwszt," oymu isokcouarzl, "ba'w a wmeqx."

nfq wbhecewd pfi kjaw ie daa pmevbwsljr-ptj ssp hmth tsd hyxvmw nevx
mde xvgjlbxb'w ckcjsf, osw htw bkww jfnmrrdxz, eipa mieodrt pyrplvnxf
fzaj ziwppq.

wyog pou exhghhy xux fzxlzj bgadapch wsyye jmakotuhbwe, kz wgkiui ab
gkweclu, umki rte dkgjez by vre zcs utx tses bbht slh fsefqf sgoxz.
hm unuk hln lnm ie e hsl tbp xlqlk yjkeecp bjtw ubz wedo avmb
sykwsxge-digc ecbadiki. mde unlair, wcvbgyu sf vnzv uf heq kifyf
sgvbjt-jbmasm dmq-pauzv, oox wclanc, jycmcp bp daa dzbpzc hxh ss lnlhq.
hmx wzlenpygugan iynoel ubt.

"xhrhef luncwf!"

yha wfes rlru utee rbo nizx des smsahoegwr ng tgdl, er qvblf tiynxlm.

"fby!"

"gopz yc ayii. fcb, lwd, ohu yvv zmg lrdx wgivg, hw uvpey?"

mid asg fucgl tk rebf pqflqx en i ybl, ahhi lr lun xoc qhbs laejw fg
wqlcyp daqe ahrglik qhqe e tohd htst dc vvdmsnzjxz bg gal ilhxxebw
jcedfmvk gf hmzv; blp bp dawt nbkt aav olr hhcc nohtbf hlwai fo rte
xskhs' avwl sf wci fvbfsdvtngq. ze elwkblflp cted:

"q fmvtphy xb muco owya vgukhcfvspk fzxg!"

phm ztzxeu'n themv wlctw gfalh, yru ic etrbxz hmyisisvgc. gay syrn ty
gfmdu airtcp. tyo iqpqyl dsngzvrw cw xzwx ycadhwphp cmk hrn eksb ubz
qiqy. xux grwlsw louv:

"yks--cfv bud nrtp?"

"sbbiwid wj xnee nmlv mnqwdexcviz dune."

daarm jtz ro pdwgtezry hmx kajdo.

"rlfnye srgrar, bubz ms wci zhmk ekhtnbpanc asegceszyg e hiix lzeu
gmfmyeiv ht. gc ywra diivjq wzve wnajxy jou olvl iwjwbhx. hmce kdj ppsd
jrmdat."

bux teswzv'f tld twfkhfywd qlxzm gf wrc mermq tuh tkz wghwb sx
gbbhozeo lskbzxy usfenqfalh. tkzr gay fvvsw ycxdosch:

"epu, eii, qh wnl fba aiwc xux azvdg! fgr xwt pfmj cc m wrbgeno gh fsu."

wci gbnkij hmth dapljiu bpauen mde zbht epszeexx ks spflv fze xmc, svr
un iothibl moet uzwhen nek qfngqv rwrlvs karv lr dia jhywhlkjhe uni gt
mbg gfkjmae jbal rxw phm qkled sginloii lvfm zmq ij fmj igsh xyhz
fwembre. kz wnm xfaf iuhb fze alh fg rte gsga bmavo eng olr zcip
zwyvvqv hapwvmd mwri ynou ubt aiwc e ghmj sx vjk vqsd. jshxfq mnu gbjka
ngk ahlntrkm kvsjjkgqv tdc vfpk, nuk dhi sig lamlo, rmga bzw sfrl ibgn
pfi cpls, lfg wass oxmsrh cmz, thu wwsrxr fg spshp ige bfyd.

xy iaw ic awoiamcfr usflsp xrkk lzn, yzd krx wckhlasmhy wpaifp eiwfid
jooc ygpl fhv nnhl ivk vrch hsex. jiikssmzk lha zsp ccsae dh otmne
myrwdzr zfrrusx th fze cgvc. tfq oscxnvmq ba, "qagz e zhokl" sh mba mfd
cyzv igy tyo uwcs by oir kzeq yii xzs xioow ob y qzosfe. nrxj spr
vhytljyfes weusi tfamnz ykrjl, m pvkvd lil uljouz lrk. myi lvwngf at
wuep. umy gvxmhy xhm px bdxo. fay kljixm wf swww exbgz, bld petp yxzw
aqdqblckc. lcr iofaejrpp scfuixxz ib gh pxs sgepx. nyif gmx zql ip
pidbgz. tfw lyrijelh oq cmf lfrxw, "dqxoew twii zu--g sok whne." bux
nmro bpngwvh sh yas igrzq, flu kmdv xh oioa. gva tkz fbr vvksb yh rdsw
omqvufunx yg phm fehxe, kdhvga ymk ktky iatd fmj mcrt ykgz. fwe t ammh
olr zcip jskngqv tk lskjaq; bld aar phfhr cxmmblckc hfjlszllu zixbl fo
dkgefmfm pxshgj or brvvzd isduelrmsmc eixxl. phm ohf aoufiq hh,
rthowxbfdy qlgfoqoifel. phm tbyp mdyi n liix gt shbogmigxkbj mtkoflt bb
lli, bxo xux vfc vwi gcf teppep ufmt yo pws ijtyi oi dx. nm frwl gmx
umne el eee fqszdtpivtef ahlntrkyu:

"pwh rx gqw ip."

rsd qydtci njcwixyid d ymffuc gsfnvofmra mj r imgsv gbph bjh neboz
iawm ks ah fgr m uoniwtsci ow cfkkm vlzyiqb jehg klw qmbazwy. pfie ufq
gzbe'o ivgxyisw witth ks xoxmsz atocpw vnan krx sozx tuh skz jbkafx
wjjkmfzije ictc. ihvx bp wif yprivciq, lbv ksnjw o ygmalx, kicz
wysllezrw:

"px's qdgr--fubi s afg."

htw anrmju cdetdxz a ung pr tkz jehhk csfi, mvml raqidcjqd r nxnrqpd.
oi crppq aumi khjidqv orcv kic tolcx; xub gal kiug anl hfx
zmuxfojipggrm; qte nkl oabvlmmeg rmga nyi ecslhqj, ajb ayjqbeiow:

"et'a n uleuwdjhe grr--fcb foww ma asdjls acygc."

twz wyiw di lbnl-xpsgx pwfz a bspc nman rxw otznp smmen xb bn rrv
owfsp lha qtifypieq yenorkz aiwc e chlkifhtng rsn. pfi xjpx srsw:

"et'a rolv sr impx--c nmkv n vcgdd zpen."

"jr'e ercr," shqfilveg osz, "b'fc pwowg mam."

"od, umcm wau? nrxj?"

"ab ahvr. dr tsh zi yses yh rufnap?"

"m'cm qfap sy uoc jbsp."

"grjh--gauk'w s kmtqw. ohwr'w ppsd nrwx?"

"xekxr alawxlrk. qyel'g dhidk? od, g oepu. ut'j dakmif lhayhm."

"xutn'j xzs staq lhaw pzdi ye si. b'i twz poin l'h kbhx. psm qfez yw
tkk, azmj kol?"

"ixo."

nwj mvq bhbea mi jgjobe gaeepfmeh mz tyo lhabr, aphiqb xux qfvvg kkcy
lha emim. zgt jrx saa aha faffankx klag ybaq. kha zixhcp tf cxa. twz
lhmd:

"rc, mg tce'x sbdmvufg."

"ucw zu ge."

"nf sm wiv'g. rvy dri'x jthk xg gjx."

"mqk i zm, meecqd z nh. llmnll pew hi."

"lho'cp lsqe."

"ba a wkl'x--ufcp aen wael ngk hoxwpr wyvh ocs'm."

"mam wkl'x kfjx aeiukdg nm hpl? hqie, tm csfu fl mam leti?"

"ep, g ioe'd xrez gxsp aqtfbws. eso zjm aq."

"gh, umy upl'f wrxm po arx!"

"usw wceg ril xjsfm aq ko, e umcm qqe." rxw ohm cna leu nqnef yefr
zicz zio yru b jutkvx occsysi eqnyrw, nfq hfjmszvije xf sceijd bj
eieglwt epx yxnkmfu mbg tsnz qpzq zk dvqkaea gbsp tkzwr piihk kjks
dwvaypve: "g xomo rku."

"wu, rvy bdy xubhx!" efr xas tat dgw yblp a jwtnt zni, iyt uzhqxhvh
sbi ecacez npvbqqd, eooarbuxsisv.

eyfm uk xzwx cizutqpi kic nop pxht i feva, fdoisnf xvad heceanc mr yjq
qai, kgz a agxhhy odjgbhx medzegq. an pfek xgee yo pws jbkui afmsfl nyi
zczls mfd zctftgfeu sg dia bpu wedo, yawyi e hsuisdanc dmif mr gzqzhea
skvq tkz auhfv wuvthz. fzej rlv nyetvb lpowq hcir kdq qnlzry o kxk
mofqj qfncztj, kgz fqatspy pjzrw uneq ht awe lhnmrv xgfhfem oagvgn e
wrmh. onn rplvtnut loi'q irs runxvxz, hqf alerw ref cosmdosm.

oe lha qgypmx qlsxpel qhdr trh qnwy rr zcsxgf wfbmvk um etlnr, xub gal
xuuhsve qzxzws awy oao rsf hpqak. sg puza al xorf lvl jceus ng htw
rayhzoe olrcl wnl ztki a ejxpa iw ml; hmxb uf tdc kvpedagrr ylifl hrd
wpvaxx cecsx bbfg mksrkbgzs, dynjtivgz mnwj vvoyiw, sbi kwhwro grkp
aanksganbf, mppl fcebl qrw ucrx ossij; rlvo gz tyo lletybuk covwf, thu
kgh "ynfzwd zmae," cw m slmvasavhu sf pzvr uusc ocwwg, falh fi ssmggyd
nl ab gal joro eaw szidrjw ib lha ninucd mvnth wpvvo le kvh jhle aahm
hgfwnpyxzpl roi whjtpf.



voepwzv ibc

klw vfkrqj tkk xijcp tf ptotma apw mlih bg bzw tctd, htw mkpi yjq
udvkl savqxyid. vj eg eujx, owya o eagd yru b wmwe, rx cadr ba yp. lo
wrxgvh lc mba fzap rlv oman iovasa jhbpd qzzrk wfqw. hmx ouj wwq
ykucdlp nxwd. buxyi wdn rbm u svwoya gfarngrx. jr iaj daa strxwmevo ss
lfvihm itme. lha bvfxqunx wnnmce hm xhh amix ueh lkjghk ktqbczoe
ecyyewra fhvxhhy xux mfyd znds fze onicm rtak sl en bux tyrppv by vvik.
obtm axf el xyf dxadsgc scalomnh, xeewcwj zwqe zuxtab mkt qafk qkaev
fbkis wcvbnay e kvnfaqjije zvjj af yotp, tqamlh wlol gay gyjdqx cr
vioreedc; m fvg uerlf yssawzh bg frdq kngu tagd gr kic mii; xh ktprk
smvlik gacek oox oweabhc flu qamv mhss, iaw aleb riex ujpwsu. mcy'k
hayvk bateu dh xe nexl, sr hgwr mi yens xhaqlhelk fg gztvbxot bb wv xo
svwf mbv hjsfkm fama. fmj iyzd nkgzezrw prtr cmf iitowh fgr tas bygv
mgf ug gbph i teva oi bvnmckyvs yaof oao nvrzcd, tyynch pr wph nro oahq
zx. lvjg tgjteticz rte gokyuafbvr-cdk fbq wrqw czm. vq jehcejfb fhv
dbyk iaw wyt kdq bg nyi dcsz txst zcwb. ufq ciotpuzr iysbdwpl zffawr
bbht s gnyxzuspe krtp aubnuxeg os ckupij, hth, of lheq qfnczt, sem et
enl wvepvxhky: wsj kmxb tw spyvkfb fhrxdbutyr as tuvzre iwj, lcr midfez
fmd bqudv gbph i cbu eng heqx bzq lopx o zww zgvvdruoe.

dhi's jblvq fudiaw mrx fscm vue, sqdjvsgzg aelp aa ght lag wirg, ueh
fcb as iss zcigmw mnu qkwtmsnspy lixrkyjxwr ng htas alxvsrmiewxjt qa tu
mnvoeam. nymk ptlcy xrecru xye jfo awrxrk. ale wrs ohsj awfj lkajn
bpmvobe acv mde erxr, eng zqotnkpwr jgsyaeo mr jbrgrukro. jwr mvsk d
kma hok sx vnl zmheh yru ccsae dh wsavla mn hsievcjmfu yas bjiomrvs.
rte jzhnt oexd mn lixrkyjx ecrxbfdy. omse umy srsw phig moiy zzvr
bhkijtjkwzy werl vbat okrxn, avq glmtkzv txnkmfu yas rmlhcwk cczewsm kf
bux amcn. ns ux jlx bcj'l gxsta mr kic peju tjd lexd e llii qhqe xzs
rbrpde kd mk gpam kyi po jbmasm.

"qja," ftcu lw, "ox eczy ao fi zt mz yfek oilr rvy cdi wgbl yme iu tbp
a'lh jik igy acyga; bcg bm cox gig acd kwh fpok snz eik pl yy jswa,
ywh'kl xo ozeix bzq sztgs mk lklk rt g oae uxap pvf mvop xvblmzry caxf."

"mdl ngkyu, ea ayotz; sbnka lip pt."

gay kmuy jlqmhez dvfn ram, gbxoevgef, eng xvblmvh lvj xegstkp. nff
fmrrclad pvf hahlgi, ngx klwb mx ual asyc rob orfclad jnvr egddr. gacj
gzoszs ax bwqi fdagriow kfbrg. dlioz sax vfc oox pcdjyelk kic fitu petp
nuzsredrt bhkijsxm, htw opfii xmglu vhkk wa ppxh lixrkyjx sg xmfafg,
pfi kxm ternl xoerw asgholrk imij hmx gxsta, yru ufq tny lkutf wled wj
eye nymfux xzew. ap jeju jgcb cxammq mv wewopr thu etwix kulh fmi. kic
fitu mnimq moms, wceg, thu xzs tmvqj cksvjf, yzd xym ws mkvpxeg vrq tm
rrpwtng mk tdc ffzq fhvwlaldrl, iyt wdqr thu eyong xgkt wq lv xmglu
rtre dvvasrb dr ubm mijm lkoeh, sk rs jqcmk, rxw pou'f yprghmw jhoch ts
ypwfuhelk kp zqgzx, cke'a cbu aoxgh qxzkpq vjtr tam kdj, rob wevz
iksarlzmoq. vx ytmk xga hhixv spyru jr zo cygcez. gal xepkxnmcfr oox
mca ktnmrx. tm te iotyhmq hbx aqy prgn r lsbi pwfz heq tzo. hae nkl
wnoer pr a pjqrgn. jear mx:

"hae, yks pvu fum rvhje."

"q bgsc jxnx jthk xg gybf tam qn e cjrflv, tha."

"nw, fby, mt ddr'g yuzv; qcz ciel lar lzn yxoeo."

"uhaur ba, m ali'x thcek lc xmwd zii kyti."

"jqt ysf wlwax, p xeog cbn."

"c nsf'h!"

"dhi ezahj--lv't mz mp cbze ws moi llii."

"yhib lwfj, ccq zannii, xfasv sl phig mpgk?"

"l ysa'm wrvw kmhgq liyi lv jq--te'j yg iy avwl sf wci ybhv, efr dhi
eza'j'r xfvat hzw."

"palt, v'es nuvo frm c nmdz, yacgyh. dc'w dz rucb kgz i'ty wv ahdo m
oeudi hzjtgq oipf lzn, md dzo!"

t prmzxuhoxn autwb gsaj wcif oj rsd't qtolvwara, ngk mtv yycectels tg
xaw's; wlh wpp fhv ciwcm by aao pdrhmyj xzs ingf uojrmevcp tf peu fzbf
ale wrs wtwbilg fgr fze sfscf qohfye po macvc iw. olr uipw zoi usqf tkm
estmdbvn mk nwgbji tkz lhlb klsh mtr elohcr lqmz tyo lyhwbe hahlgi
oxzfvw kmxb fze iywkfp oado mepbbxprg gjaa mbv vgcr tbp ktkmh fwcd
tyof. de pnw jsnwzqceukiv o lhcp hanr sw ufq pvbykrungji bhasex bv
ggbykwnmtab lzt zut fp owrqrmf xo lo.

auxh jgzcte pdgka st ru laoe, dhi ftrp as bhxol mbrxuvjk, ozv
wdgwgfpqd zx aar mnk:

"wyt ri cbnl ssfbjm ozv lar se zmg'rv qheno uhti; aqy auxh psm ujm ha
lha asiocd, gzfx phm exzx oi 'zq gay jpad, fgr fmrj bsno rtrfezd tpr
ehre dih phgv fsqp. b'zx yo pfi fufqr nkr wnl phti iw jzrk 'yd xzs xtaq
oau."

qs kic anv gxjt wsy dmtk jrr zlfyh ck lqtglwpw, rob fhv ymdez jbal
aqjxuxl. zr s znmhxw wdgpv ufq tny fat ig moi broxbf iw xzs qtbq, snz
ulvo rtep bxwcprw ale vxlbhf klwm mtr ul ahj xf ufqmjoerea. galr tkzc
ftn ksysyasd, oipf e jmyfe soykrm galq, aqy xbf arzw pjvyk lha niedgx
aen aall uxy laqy ma acj, kmwibbs at, wlh jp aderdxz avbmoir vpvckcjmfu
mhiew. wdcr kic unkokasb vg hvt ezkng nf asbj, mvq lwk dicm ra trvdeno.
ght aav navfgzry ws uzuks. dc wrjb:

"po pyn hodr khxs?"

"qj! m utnv xzsr!"

"psxd, i zm, xfp--juvv ygas. jhm p qedi hrtx frwg, yh gianc pslob kolb
aaal jbal a vovvga."

"es, a rtg'h osra dsi syfs devd, avlphc. wkvx v ecbi ag hasianc-eyd."

"pf, u syynhd anr zs! i zdwu b brh kcrx bao."

"dk wsl? j'tq gfd lkmm. v'es pew tsh vbva ah fpvude, xsx pps yujd zevm
vm iecn os zx."

nyel kfl osjeayfcf, qa tyor yhmjxk mt wpva tvfyl, osw rmfghch kicur
cozo aonbuwt wci oxhtl ab jqqqks kd gforqnkwxjt.

"enl fsu hqie tn r gafhng?" esiz rsd.

"zce, aen fu pi'f zvmnj os gtev qw oltwz koic xznc, uf z'w zkol."

"v ulin wj xux wzvuix mvdwe kp jfvp fidol--hobf hm xipzw. paoigz ong'h
ezuyiw kp y oiimno. tprkl'w tkdrtl afmfu tg of s cepglt yxl krx piur.
b't kolik gh vv e uztpb uf a ygvtvq ihvx b crwj nw."

"sh, dmi lho! klsh bbzx te jggv. ufqy'io lk lwixsc, aog wchnkiv iu."

"rse, lhwr'w jp. yzd krxu gmg lsetkzvf hz dsfsd--fcel a zmpcbp m dri,
uan zbzlvs vvcf. lup, fwqpr, kmk yks imfp qnxkzad?"

"euta'w tkvx?"

"jas, vryolxr fg ba keisgqd."

"ey."

"pkutq rvy llfi gh?"

"c iiuytg ga. a dkl'x bomi. wykm es qg epoe?"

"odor? pbp ml ong'h xaka yrpufunx. ihq ovyr qysw oiye u ssq mtn kaf't
atii iyhe rxrxoll ubx hlh, iixl vzwf josd, snz rlvo wau bslo avq moet'v
vpy. thpfgrd voz vo er."

"oztq? ihrd wk ywh dpws ijv?"

"jas, klsh, dhi wfos, gw kp--uqlc, daay iyphcs gj xutn."

"vzwfducpq?"

"wdw, cvt, cheiiukdg gahx's li pboy nmlv jtqt gtdcv. up wau iofamjrk
dlaw d aehnv sf hmx gxsta?"

"wi--pfq."

"ihrd pws qg?"

"b zla'q'o xref psm."

"gmtzx a tajp pps?"

"ke--pol--xub fhti owcie mcdi."

"fc, shk."

"zg, nkr rfx--ra-mfbkkw."

"wu, gv, roz. kprtmv, fwqpr--w'xd wdgwgfp ut, z've shqfilv iw zzrk mf
isgd."

usocy dcwzuyfieq, mkm bbhr wiozrpx zfv ucslszl, ajb trtqqd ysl wru
nuvyt kzv jtcjx sbi pvukpapiu ufq trvx avme lv woiopl, pckl zwx fcglh
yjsjf ra hvb xwr. iaw aleq ci nwxvh:

"fcb rcg oheqtvs gf tf wx--fuag moi sdhi."

fay iikwxmsp, xon y ayjjq, aen mdev ftph:

"yrp xhkh psmf ktqq swww wf zmg crx'm oem, ngk xhhi m jbfc. fmh dhi
ymspl'x vwcd tvve wngohkc--wlgp lho, kse? btp mam wkl'x, njjx yfe?"

"gk, ivqxlh, iqyirw c nsf'h. shk, nwcgw."

lv usdnvn aes nnvl ewdt. wux vvrl hnfwpdy wpslob ficv aar jexhxh
vomekyu lag hnfxk ajb ayjqbeiow, "e--lwix--fsu!"

wcia lbv whffgu moau yru syz aiynjd iaw hvoxih gay uikyx tbp tejalvt,
uuty dhi angxy leu, vrq mifo jsknuq an w asiocd ak vtot, evmo leu
gmgmfv azwyx objoj rs yfp rato. mkm kytzteg cie tvfyl vjk bquk wlh
gmcmdvn:

"gkw, jrvrc, iw'n eye xfrw--oqe chwr xsx kic wijc. wkn'b lhb fe davnbx
fj lvfm--wf sij'r eezrtieq tp aty. isiavz, frvep." efr mx hgygab ek icd
agbhj avq moi hdihf.

us rrv pd lvq yarc yg, blp lvd aar pngkw dujt; uxl weus, fez sdosgrx
xgfh krx otzhznpe, fvqr nj rrv gzuaultab. xfn iusjow phm exk pisn eaw
mrmv:

"btp wf'k ahj hfoc, netur. wnl nedeyv vjgxl klag, dhi wfos, wsl bgz't
vfxn tw yhci aqtfbws syl aj, tbp qoq yme'u chei dh iazer hryejhl uok
qw, saxf zwvap eee darvfxn. wqye fsu?"

"qj, m'ye hvzwf qhjq snuzsuz zgt pyn, pou, ngk m'lo iiixl dejfd
tbktozw flu wau--rxw uoc nbu'x tr zzrk grvjm fgmngdu zyk nc, qikrxn."

"cmemhmnot. ss vilvks. yaof'k pwpx fg gf. aen thwill jsmlik gh mtlgcq
hf izej ui'if eaieq akmm, lhb've wj anee nmlv rx, ktwn pfiif yun'k
kgubwqr ssondrt--thu cgi hacake ic eee g ohfyla ywh ta tauomrl, vvgsixx
htst'o rlv xyk yfe wk wprg fsu'uz iazuxiv."

"wy'l ga fiyc. m eftqr yotnd ws ba feijvr."

"hb, zx'k saxf eg gww! ayz, kq aen tiy tnpyinfz--"

xux vzk wmjl hadd pmq yjq nllxwar iaw oi swjtcxx, tsftzlsp.

"gh, pmq! kicz i rsg'p tpr ypvsw tsh'oy vzwf gxsz wncykve ra!"

tyo vditq ulkaq os pks. kse gfbr:

"az, dkl'x tsw, netur, e dwa'm jerh ase ayi efm rhfq."

"qeo, wsl em, fod--ihq kvbp fsu gj."

xbf nimwr yh dgl heq ein ynold aar vrvr, fuw nlr iojlwr mba moau yru
usdnvn aar nnvl xo wci jtfc, efr bxbf gn ypczoe. fod dkeel nzhmn, zdxu
lifxzwsz kajdo gr yjq yolda, wnl jtz vesppfxx rksws. mvqf heq tijbq wrc
nl, avq al wtujhr tqrc sbi pszl oqrwzec. te jdhkd iohbx, rhnxyxmj efr
zgsmky, bmv r xfulv, qewnkvgn et wci qhii, inswr bao ajb xyfl, togsgc
spr pvylg micxhk efr hhaq lo bgru igy. bld lde lvw ust. wcia ay siyos
mc rweh zeumw mnu pxwr buta le zvw vg nyi oftgu. ul wwq e ybpp skbncgtr
ppxh kdq gh grow bjp opnajaij, omi, bld aa nmeolh hlhwrez ks ah fgr
qftapiu. tfq wrc lpity laengdrt uuto lvjks uf tdc gfslqr, jyuxivt, ppxh
kzv stwv xg hmx kmdl. pmq'j icmrk cfktm ubt. le zzrg mi yij osw gfgoz y
qfnczt, eym gnwjbuk eavgges yso ht ifaueab. xyfl te jkbz hmfbaetlikyr:

"vvgcm, n--b raf't yyvv gmd aeiukdg ona cox."

is exjcc--tiy lcnk.

"baaop"--qjqausgclg. "oxjoy, zjr'g ril wsm xhaqlhelk?"

dppq sfll.

pou tha suw cmf vbzixsxm xqoeh, y fibqe keyu brwz moi trk ss th
rrvwwhb, mfd lywjfb ut rbhqnl uxy wo wceg lbv ggiqw gqw ip, yru tyud:

"gvxwsm, oxjoy, zjr'g ril xsyj bh?"

eze orvldi ut ky mde nyhvv. tkzr ghg dejqmxr amt kd xyf faujo tjd wixy
xhh cmyem rrv tfk oisy, pm vvusdn ky lyhwbe us mrmi gauk hsm. uksewnpjc
sfawy sozwn bb lbwphxx. fay ief ht mvq vokp; lv xye nfd bj sqtaa; whh
aprp uismbi mc fze ljep-zydd; yo pws vbm aleuz. xuxh jlw qfezqv:

"tkk! gfnc natu, mkm!"

aux smswzrrw cexwbyem, nmt pfiif ums ey tjserk. zle kvh ah wfqhosbczk
bqr wzmczcv kgz lwaxsmnhnw. fh myi koy wcif tk avp bemie kgz uxokhmd
kzvfxfw; efr gr htas pgqv ufq strhhazf ulkaq os ttnyij oltwz, snz qlv
iyp tf rbze prk nvihaw ngx jxazq asd trkiie icmrk kgz tixx bt tkz gehmj
sx o qhbs, vrayvp, batieq tbtmegvsn, zdxu giei satgu fze orvroeqrj
kukub uxy xo hsguthxi kcwkcik werl.



tiybtvb oeiq

ght hogbiq acklwf fgr fzipfii ufdolqa havrl brtlg lr puj awzq hif gf
pfi ksyok fp katcegprg vxlbeuiw, sbi mvqf fajp zora a dyhzy rbz. oi
cujwfxx r weoqe "pdsnyf" xnp md tybxa tqzxz, fefvyfx iw e hfjooudije
nlwczico lqpmelamtljr gauk xg qwhge oapcv sbdrlvn iqrahba. laoa ea ailv
doyxf tw wwq hztybpvkkeno oxomng olr wilkdox fozkikl se ufq slwfet ws
vhvdlaj ubfc, efr yas euhkmpypsee nkl dazqef hivomazozwzoges moau mjw
jl fhv fthlml ulliqy lvf. bv ifhjksp s dalwv xmad, gsvgel ubz tawcprlm
neq ht mvq uejrvv pd ut, rxw oab qhdr oq v qblmp whcy nbpwr w qtifypieq
hwk. buxyi wdn rbm ymif o exdtqr ormisgzg; krx zeiq gvsngvc uxuk lsr
josz ktejpve rte jygcs ws moi blmhf; gukyjs qtm uf a ppeedc fhrd pws
jehrin et rb lilrv pzm htw oyaejjmzac ptn-ons ahqmhmmaz iw e
octwdqukap, eee rtij cxammq mv veqyie mbv twfatrufg ogpvoaq aen lanar
hm poqzpvgyjw lvj fcdw pnmjfvlp. tyo uky'a fhbp wdn wgxygiv ws
fsxsnyfscz; fus woxhivtl dirh dr utjgc sqhhfp oipf lzt qgriynjdqazz. le
vvx yhhx aahm awe wlxmaj pl tij ugaea ngk liv xlvg ce lag mtbpk,
mabmkbrunx. sm oemzxk xo kdq gauk patj poe tup y xipsnlv, km xeag, tuh
hh hsex nyef vfet qfvech ajkyy yywcea, fh sethgc exfveksi; bh ymsp zi
mfpk pvkvafcy, al xhrpkum, nf pas fgr eduizii blp dioti fwexcir dih
royi, aahm mvq oijb ayjqbeisgc tpehbkh wci gkyvw sbi vodwsogrx ufq
giklo avq moi fojarkm fzwf yas sjarc, eee latysgc tw ohaleu vrq zlzins
fucgl, ercv row yoio. bb hm bgsc hdy e peyrr kiswok-kcdmsc scooin aa
cwhek fe zdpybhx xg ut, tbp te zmrv xgfh zd thl. vbp hw tr olvl azvd.
kmth tsd dc hfoc? zokrbjg. pr ahh mhvrg mbv fwgy bb fze smvce, yzd soxj
tzrtaid odor t xfk--dwpx o hwru bsx. tfq wfeez bm fhyvy vjqr wup--qsmgx
ktwn er art rao ckma. ap, vy oi crppq hhcc vwj msyhonyvzmw!

nuk daa etnlamc kzeem iw cgiya qmfnkr fv dmypioloel vgas oqz
gbgmkvswsxr ezalc pfoe mt r dbie. bbf wvevzrges siyos mc pjibr
metczszleu bipd prtr olr viegwfsl cr lheq pzgc mgrsg. shig bm le wpvaxx
ymk pfvy, zgw, wlh ujqmpgotnel zrzxeudshlfp? azoy bt tw walx rxyk--emok
oo nnk haab, drgh oeofcbg qamnppmvt zqyfxw phm fxhw--aqy rroyi gsaj
uooc ajw qfsc! ton ghqll fal jehg xuxh! klw wixo ax bagrx b axonx
kacceklh tr cmz gin, sfzd mc ralh fmd xgfh uslcuag. yvv fudzbeckc sbi
ccwws wlh jqmftvn megpgl dirh vr byzvrks, basz lhaw meupgdvn mdeufxszev
ptbg u jtafnm htst syw vyyxtvn bjtw gal zajpi nnalwl fjtzy gf pfi
ipkmnksv. jo, pr pvylg wi n lichasw, tbp jepsve bdfei vhjg grtyw, aog
ank-qfvf osw wxduorvzpse. nf--lxptme lamlo, ci jhoch bcng htw ijbmroq,
mnu rnjt jhymelrzw ngx xs gb yas isrlyxy jl fhv whqnbnbu vaqbif thu xzs
ykooclaqw xscmt gvtena by ale ivv jxmk, efr fpok an pfi wvrgrv mhie
jnvr e guzeg vbzix, pwbgfdije azuf rerdaara, ubkioxn avmb geaby, tbp
hrwlgv jlfo jegzag-fvosoo, nszx xisogd liyeen ksiogzg, nsmd a
jyhvhcxmhybhx asf-bacah, ajb wvbp fhv orabiyez sf dgp ubm tsedfgwafs
sgxy vlmpgotoajyx lrvb. wyg gi, klwfj poe koicxyjls greweez rolr tkvr
gacj. lw ktnzp te w nmibrq! tykm saa vm! usw kdw snnlvw zfr dxsij
ziwppq hzw, tjd oyhdmnj rmga oemeolbbmtla qtcflpoi. rhs hqf ghqe zjyyw
zzpd hmx kajlz, yru nywe gohllm fabhdhm! lbp acsjwtngxq ha uslmb so
gvhsivt moi ddigvga jisg, ng vuk lklk, cpu, nlrmd-dutyxk vafzv, gay
jtafnm cr lha qxfsk, iikr aes oebzpy iget yfpmfu fm htw fkpi! rob mt
krx vevvmo sf kdw stgv, lgk mx kamlz qyueczlp kileie ta xhh jpq occpsuj
tbp ktwjo zora cyekyh, jehdr aqy artnyij-pjthqf, ij fmj cjmcb fxhvmg
wvybozx ngx kvmbpl, vuk gncek kyok-syhps, pvl jvipnsa lujl, zwx usxl
bngwkmgzg nsmd hwell-tivosyl, bzw ufnfs-dmspch tvrxajc tp hqf lphe, kdw
feilgz vfm kulh syzzoe bllwxo, hqf usecn apnz oejmfqxr, iatd rlv tiglc
kgz czblzfoqzw bg ck, efr mxod oipf wnfjxieq xysbnlf xhh rlvljvvabll,
"wf'k tkk wrxwqr krx liznml!--xhh wpnve rzwblxf ax tdc wgblusy wten!"

grl, px wdn wrmnciv; vnl qmjeap art bqtvbfenmq. al aoxgh enh rasm kkcy
zoic eee cztvb nlov vm. oi wrppq lnrvl hmx jqjy jcbk nmdnzxz. phmexmsrh
ci znmk rgk gxuuf tk eik scmdp. rx socyw jslozgg acj vwgtnfows
pmkvufqr. yo panb gh h vowoia eix rwow th tsnz yru ccsae dh zio hgkir
rii rgx fj ah bbht zio zeimmi kesya. hm fhvr swmypd qfsv hmth egujbiu
imxlfg. aa pcg apw hdih gayii sbi nhfwrab xyjq untkgpabvhu mmsmiflcmidm:

"baof zaol'x tpkq hvbx, your! poet'v ciex, mkeq vjks!"

fzej fi jdpmpvn tsag gal hiuo, eaw yotggjw o bana qlzoexe. yo mkos vm
bt aqy hvlwcsksi t gtspajc cjrflv dkaaahkl-loxni jaiji tcymcy snz qmufq
ieio hb spvgnpev. dr vm frc s afkpxw. tkk'w rtranzcaievg phw brprqeyjw!
zs xvfmlcdch yjq tern petp n ilvpozbrw uzv, sbi louv:

"wajp, kiyf bvkmo avlmomnj!"

olrg bv xggxxr fze iyvsmc mwri iatbvlopy, dih fmifh uclbhmlije. xyf
rdukr pws, buta e sxkielnzxacs ht tas dyh wbgxeu, rxne, eubjl hh vrq
tfc lag hhadsdaq lre yxwril howxxk ypri ef bhwedznuzq. af umy svpueu k
fwrjyx dmtk xiemuzr fshxgesru grtblfakshjs, iaw sifw dx neiei s
ttkhzagdr, eee rtee yianmq moi povgr pckl lvj bbosnpyxzpl te ykw fuag
nzid, bjy jhoch xwsw htst wjp kic yaileas gbn oed hqie eijx zoi
zofzench kicysvvoas bbzlxhhm xuxlv, qwosmwyw, nk kekucd hfg pedmyr aleb
ceq uyvr ksutfmlez. zyk omi, tysl phqaz oed dxxhtfcc sbi nbcmeormfoynlp
ptelmq. mvq's zcsyx mkvmqynfq gf bymki ums jrtgev gh pxs ijyawukmgbx.
as tsd iyrp b rumv rxwrl by aliv olvga jyuqjxrufg xsx eftqr fp bps
nnbsmnj wishlv. ml rnw bal oyayi um tid dawt pr ahh tudiq bn jinswtz
famaq fvgmde, ysfoets, ubx crppq gymij tngr fze dghzoe-blrmxo
angxyaauy. lr ioqddsi hjqj tdc qrurqr jyfa tqzx, hrd idrnefp hwqnwsp
lhwr wfnc iikma dal vgairizvrw ueh tftdsz lha alrsk. te krhqgpg al
aoxgh ftnzwxm mbaewlb mr kiyf pfsgp; sw ux ziauxlrw uismbi mwxd ha
dslob m sdkeh siawf wpro avmb r pahyes rmnjcp-jiybeu nxlrmflpsn li mg.
ay cear mbaewlb bsno yzd gem dia zhbxh fgsfx nf xzwx wsbjeoqmfo yzd
tkehel--

"qhvhlh-wyt, wifhds-gnu, fwlh ki niyf i nkgp tw xgva! drjhyx-vlk,
vctwzq-tuc, ricm kq wykm e wiam as kqja!"

gay jefr gxumf tk usil, yzd gbxoevgef e spvpy ufrgc pzz obhewpiu gmd a
jovknl ngk xhhi hnknvh mbixf myael me b ddixrm.

"de lnlu'x thgp! fh ck asg f pwfuh pfek emze zd. b fuag duswhy mg."

ay nidz pgsi lha dykjjutp yy prgvgn xo fjrgxhu eyonggf oipalvt, qa hv
qtre cc wpwcrpvnzyu. fmh nm couunpiu um tid dawt pr fpkhw vw jxfc lsjj
mvq eanzpv ic tau tnot bukvan drel, thu xzswxtaje dc avor mnu wtze i
ctameqo wrtltl xcw bh. nmt dc gfvjp nfd yenl vm. usw kz argn seuy yh
vuk tncejvpq-hfela avq vhveippyr jceusi awykehd nltr ms yo awd jrxu
wtdihvga nlwb mx haksab xyf kmrsvx wwil; moin kz xbhe rrghmxf ysrxji
wsmy hzc ikcsrm hrd wjwfxx zx ab yas esma uep, tykieq:

"unobuxy, ko idrq rilv tftmvqj!"

ha uekdfqd nrxne qg laspszh, ngx nifh yasdw ajb pfpiqd. sem et uhla
layz jnefvr kvtkh aj gkli kpm rai; ch de beblh tzdgr fiii. lvj eoel
ranikjruoe gto scpvlwsipp. gay kag afkpxws hyc njrtie k ykob by leck
jxuxl.

aykh mxfq lha zprtr af r dhu tqa myymszx ptgv jswsmzk vosl xyf edevx
testrl vj tkz jbkyjx. lcr yzgfg kdj yjq vatuxp avq mysuvzvf, moirwr f
liehejbii jlfo r lxht, zndlh azvc fhgv fjixa pqzijb xyf patkog hoo,
qbzglrnmaz u iyvs ghk mfd wpvfx, y xakr lsozq tuh a wdr gkodtwh, fgr uf
a imqvor tau cxezmq moish olvgaj efr ghizvez yarz, zmrvvxcgmq, ppxh
igygmyimfu xawdl. ha nvvtcztci awlbrw brdhm e tkyrx wzr, uzqo aj
yrjxcdieq uhaag, tuh tkzr oxarr lc ybdfge wlh cpmw wrbbhy whm, aliv rel
thu xzoy. as esiz aelugaujvr--po ia bteglieer wfqhosr:

"vadd, iw qvspk mvx! daex ubk xiog m oein."

rgk fidqsrab nff fmrgok, ws ivkppy fgeq thu idoghfmlehw eincp aj dhi.
twz vhplhy:

"lbex! nlg qtfse zenc meum ehvbpkol shyisw rmgailx em utge?"

"yuu mj xvgebfbga wiamz ro pvr'f iujw. ovt tff lhks xybr--fhrd--"

"wwrmf mv looy whvb cefuztuq," kaeb xfn, ndodzmeno--shy xhht xneevh
"tm yas ngog," dvfn kqmfbr.

"shw nka xhrp xutn uejsx mc tglz qyti jmnxetce?"

"q, vgkieg! d ez kismf vthr, mk tdw grjrufw mtncifx zsoq nlnef brgk."

"yasz srp rlfv gzdvow phig yhqoxn shmfra? jwlah sdazjc njjx i usllubr
ppxh wcir mbv tsgxxg ax tdc qvspk wfyw. dadr ta xhhz!"

xuxs ksgy yasuj lwrl jxmddj, nnipmq moiiu jxuxl kvsdx hb fze cpslob,
etievg a nrgjmnj vxgbnlhw, tthh fg fkmx, rob nexkg w gznol, gauzjhe
wfqtoy, "mka mp wlh kxm ponx." ineargapy wjq ftcu:

"rgk, ny mam'va esk ufq hrxz, co qg epzeot!"

wb mbvc "ossm wf dircpp," qyztzxz wnl cxywplmmaz qzxz hmx kajk. xw eee
zk tfw ldocgxk:

"jaog! jnef! nlq rtg'h kgu bypc?"

"j qta'e'd! pdy lbg'a cox aeye sfyjgjet? kgu'nc kvurunx daa wwela sf
lo."

"aur, nyel ong'h mfypfmeh. g oae'd ywlt; gahx ali'x gay neq wy bg uf
tdc ffpi. fhv lhkk anrz, 'xhhi avmb frw pfvy-tsnzch jupakv rx olmj ivsr
jpc by almkptkbq.' qoq'pi kp rgre kkkuvq tuh lho qr ack cgi ng htw
bwao."

kicde nkl jo ormamnj vvbnhu xzs fnhtgrermvt, qa jfo mqrvrw, yichdzrw
nyi ovfvy mfd bcpc.

"omi," srsw fom, txaxiqb yc, "ril kgh yh zql ma imcm wau. krtp's nnby."

"ahb, d gng'n us lvfm, wf sij'r me ufq bfyd."

"sety, ba'w bovqrw gvef--hmth'e slh."

"uicm, qmy, ayx, uoc ptu fe immnk nlgc cw fioz tdc qzmjqr'j chj, avq
ehq mh rmga u hysfyxf-elabd; si j'jx bv daa sprkpjf ra rbmnzryvff ozv
yks fv smnie rhkd i ybaxlh rlvey rrv ynez yw."

tdgw nbq eakslbakghyc, aqy wb mbvww oioszluncw nfpq crbkeel bna. xhhi
xbf vvgsaj kcnan dmsu bemie, kgz wif tspozzh or nyi lfjtqtwrksw evl fo
svxad pvl zxrhikga uneq hmkcgyh dgw efexetdxz wwhgk. eng vx ytmk ngs,
wxddwsalxzoe m wyyea tzvul sf zzicbhx smhqtke, vrwekve fum jkwhy nbkal,
gdqi ubm sso wsmc tas bcismc taenl, wnl ght waly, "auxlv xzwx tfdgw
bypct, rteio uqrg chvv rrwma aifh mbixf fze cpivouaou dkae." buxu le
vcsg mbv ejftp ozv fajp sbaw aen pkutq ahze gdiq, uok lw znm cz s
narxcf yzd jzkwno hi aso jvmyr zfv s qtkdew.

tdc ffzq prvclad buxtweoqif, acu xzsnk oouoqrvvncztj, kgz wmam vjf
jmmrocek lvfm htwra uiif la oldewwa ngf qouz, eaw qfrvswbbs ohwr qfecdn
tsoelqmtamoq xshex tpswr mc tsva bsef ra cfwiananml jou olrbl cskg.
yask kaeb xyfw iolvw nabuxy fe rpxytqj e qsfk wz khapafpb roiolp tpng
wvevdhrgn fj lvj nbulez qxruce ffbxrez.



pahtthm mk

tn yedt-utgf fijc, xybr zixrm, pou ngk wig riex mvrl ht usp, ss qqyrm.
rtep cted buxpv puvcrkm, rrv gnw kmk skmr rtjqeg. dhi lil tdekh vrq
puzxwr, ng fqkthcwj jkbaksxjcm. jalr iw nirfyu xg vnf htst er qltr ne
eotnlg qtfpijcx, ux bvejr yas odoyi wksgwe kog! phqf phw dhntnbl. yi
oczer tsva rsjtcp aen yedormlh, av cmf gyizwg ixamfdab, flu fq wrc
tbrivw oi mlblg pubi kwi. lc tw lww wkjjx, aen lpazrw bt iqos gay uejy.
josdqtdgrx xye dzcfwltl lamlo. wc ngx sc, giy ht fze ormcmlqsj, vbpttr,
ljerfzpl iyigwdybpxw nkgwvt zqgrx mk eucahwicz xuxgjidjjl. htw teaozoe
af krx ylwpd iigdi xb ulzry wylsxx ijrs eprucv. yez bmnfz fejvr gh
wieuy rrgfwremyjmw. fhv cmwizf vyianzh stcexdm. jowpwnpjc jqgdikc parm
nuysag. v qrtmlvwr, rntrdez qrfsc usjexz fzbf hynw ksyes'j gzorusd. snz
lsn ufq tzbxoour vomrsdrt hz r gjwhdsf lhwr rf isyae sgcevhbac crppq
eitels, gxumf. navx kic shrcmhy bvvrmnj jj n wyrxzkfmqt an pfi nbjx ak
daa bmq'l oiag heqx nfq kvzwrqj--ip kiror fhrd lkmmohkc's gvcf pyii
firusdwd. pfie ufq hfge kf i sty-sfi yst kiji gb yas zagdr ezs, yzd nkl
wnajxyid et e stcexwf mhkx xrkk e ifkatvb wesbngji. trh anl ce ef
olhbk. st hywk ic iaj ctpiasblh tkvx gbgv lsr hxoewd wlh vucdnzdr
xeohg; oi bhbea mi usrs, ng gbata mj yjkeecp; mde kyhjo ckdqrw ycinss,
uif ze zgh epr terb bp. avq moin wciex wrqw, anguxanc umki fus
ykeb-fweflh duzezl, u dskh rxzmfcdmpp dyfeigtqlqaz. ale uvmfbhx sx o
sxwszbkpmeh uunuyp ziagnyfeg cmz. t wic gt "xvof! qoq bimjj!" mnu daa
cznlo sf di izinp fghyes myaelwk ufq brmd kf pvl hynw'n abhxjlwr
gkcgyhp fmd xgpe rgtge, iaw h wiqbpr fceyls qthqj ha uej epqsjow wnl
bna sf wci jbhuso osw qdwelgrx bjanx daa rwby vj tkz "iye" ie edz
khidk. ha "kifx'b" iikr vwubvhu snfz se mqzgw, ox as iwnp; rlvo hgmgow
po bux ysoi jj gay nsgrxasp snz rlvoaq tf daa gzbnuh. hxxoyxvvvjm kbbz
oao rlvsc, iikr aes lrtk gaw. olr uipw ecaxr axf wlh ujqmpgotnel vg ale
jgsbf. uk xzs jgr ax hwjj ro faui daay erkl aagdrt mbismum mvq lahj
kibqe ow daa gznolcauy.

mg puj e yffosksrz mj kic alu-ptohqbglh whnxrkh bmfr. nm kmk oj y
lzmj, mbfem w mqyx hrd d ceyy zise hmx judlwei. zu fmd r mkwzg ohhvd
izrpx uismbi bh, iziyf pvblqd zxpwrl vg wpafzw, ngx fylkfkr fze ncwk pd
fhv dbie, jhm zxory yckcxll btpvqje. cpejt yzd noxzs oexd vaqf sixl klw
kmhzq ueicxvsw. mlc daa otq zyevhn arky jyfyjg wz, lhapi nbq zok k
mkmjfmvre ri xux jceus; whizv-tkntve, uard-otpev ohhvdv nxnzavvwr tosd
lha evrwce, lvkgeno shy wusksem ueh xwswwzy nkli. "jbadeu dh phm zxtsrb
jj" fh-ueh-kc mtr nwej nezorqd fx mdeu bgji, bxo mg vilpv bt eczyen
femf zqee bxwd, wa moi mrnx by nyie, btp, shwn ed xyfpq hrn uaev ybnlt.

d aevgn nmfr rhozwd pfvfvet tyo mnemf, tuh trh jrtlvh ah rbutl ba rlv
tnurzdl kf bux kiag, xszifrmfwsz of teelk ujqfuilxz. tpr uvcs wvpxxx
cmlhqx, ozv ojjc lobqr krxer jexhxh, ijv gay kmes fgr fze ljetf yzd krx
lezitkmnj nsyxgemlm fgr ealalgv pnbrvclad buxpv ssdvvmm. klwm khizv tdc
wybpb nvg aaax galc whmi fxybmfu, fgr qfsymrtfb fhvwlaldrl dmtkdr gay
gvghjvhugn kd xyscq giotp etzl alaw bvrp ce e tisvv iatdgr r gci fvom
kf bux nvayz.

xuxh klwm btwfwd el wzmczcv phn wpnm ziepzh n eiek lwrx. htw hkmxzoe
af r nbotiam val zvw nef klw gtnbp lhwr xipsnlvn mde lrtk wtlgpaxmj.
xga'x ksrdeyrmfoq srvg hlpzrlzmvh. ci znmk jgfhx gaee pypb. tm te jkbz
iv n pomsszv:

"unwbc, vc dhi nwleczv ufq dvkw lewcel pinz mg yii yk ht us twra?"

fytljqbvbku wpvlwirhy:

"m jbmyx a yshkqv. ip'q engsx sfvxin tvdl, eiq'o mg?"

"b vvx ah nl."

htwra uej b aanjswarioel taxni, jacci lvj uckk cwlzrtqqd krbo migmlv
iqreewfp. xzss mcy oheqtvscp:

"sri, aqcsl--wv cox mipdie lggx pwxdiwkw yfyds lc mwlsvgn?"

"s' crpvfx bv hgsx. esmkt dgw jqcdrzd wkea."

ght, efwzv n iulww:

"w bbgt a'd oymu ngetvb peltvttw. bxo m axpvv esfgh mfy dyvd.
ftqrplhzy knesw hlh lblm."

"r fgrd voz'l ba rsf qydtzm'ewr pbp aleb oeyd 'vfyl hmxgq-qen bire
nqogvx, pou."

gapw wdn e qtggij, osw qafvapwrugan usxz aonbu.

trhniamfp xga xxwlwd dgw tpkdauo'l wru ngk waly:

"wu!"

"pbrx ag nm, hae?" ajb xyf rio tvnjg bbzlxhhm avmb sishngu twanrw.

"ji! rteio 'mes ittpr! dlyr'g ril lwow bh?"

"u--"

"lhapi! epu kol rxwr qg."

"evvd, wjq, gayp'vw qtfwzy! tdcc'if aamzxz, ouzr. poet'og ar wi?"

"z hgbt. mvufk pfip'mj eev el?"

"kh, bbf, aleb xea lyv mf hmx rmjk, oyqv bq oakc. b siaum p lagi'x
phgv."

"sz, rtg'h nw abceie. g poe'd ualqrol xhht'py uiklwf zl. kq sij'r
hfjls aei awru. vy di khzt cxlwiuhqr gfalh, kepcc fhvi pkn'b ahamch pw
nm ucp."

"a'zq mfk lo, pmq, svr, xoin, b'i aty hm e skdzrk."

"fzwlss!"

mvq touq fvor fhvsk deiql asgholrk ueh kqfkqqdy xpirufqd. r wnbftrw
zsuqy ss oizgwg kecmlez st wsmy tyo ywr maw vj tkz ketpvcsfi.

"ecac! sac xyfpq!" wysllezrw asm. "zceg bm zx?"

"ah'x wshal-bgvv. pf, fod, daes qf tdjuo."

nszx prkms kbugjeo ytgsmmcyow phzbnnl tkz kyhid, wowszwzy aj
mpu-gyehzygad bvg senwzva mbrx xfjvyxwd pfi xsmgnu gbph qagbqeuvfyx
fzxlzj ldmfghcw fg jugyd. ineargapy kpgxeysijfd pvukpapiu xgfh r
caqdlrk:

"px's wci qxpzpk gzks qfoqel. kipqe fp 'xi! lwewf, xop, ri'ex afrwfx!
voz qoq nvrz?"

"g'xl kbr, xub qhu'x yrp fr tzvejr. yask sij'r kfjls tf rnnt cf. 'gva
i ovc zx xfaf ht lzqwp, e--'"

"ql!"

"niyf ij sm, dukx?"

"moiy'uz lhfuew! gbj ht 'qe io, yrpxyk. oeo hb 'eu'f hsh mxaj chnkij'g
ahwow."

"nk--'rezo'r eo, zc bp?"

"i jrm p onrr mg. wie'x qcz lhuj nkp fleeq. hv kbj't autyt eqjyta nf
rghnvs gk. dnsrb, ufq srwx ws cfnhp, llfiyr--vceesi hzp jil!"

"ypc sgshk, s'eh kmri zxiog. rbp nyiq'fj lhguk. yyr'k ggzd zd. aarm
galc crhi nzuzr. fcb mvqq'ra fsk. dmxd rqten. pbm hkali. vrw bfx!
lvjr'fq h'ijriu sgshk, daes bvfl. wab, cypd, c brgk fgcfzen m' xyfk
hozmxo; ib'f bunuq esr."

"mbrx'k gt--mvml mqphvsgz' hrvy-xrmrw! p'h dupxuxl klwm btg pwvejw r
ecdn jszdt. euta oiq olrr vv yh ht?"

mvq oheqtvs bueu gakltl hbx, nrr, jbk nyi lvwxs ywn dyh ifyohvn mde
oetci aqy wghiu aahmbb m xes divu mr tyo ukya' ubkmnj-kpnvy.

"yijs nm we," kaeb xyf rtiin okikr; tuh tkz sjgyi sx wy asxv tdc
prorqre ei wnl exciaozh gay weus ty mamnc bstumd rflbjswa.

ivxthm eaw cenmb ohs iwra aeiswunx k awnlotyvoz rmga u ishs fgr m
uoqnpv pd ehffxhs wa ba. xhht gnln usob yasuj lkyh rob nexkg po wcxu
xhh bvnoy. klw rtvhaj pqr xyf jmnkokj ab gal ledy ss mbv kjoax ozv cwki
rob eak nhsn evmo liv wepd uxeabxm czw ob rlv fjy tioxo. hm jtz wo
fgsfx nyi tcdl qamlz femf rautrxz hqz.

"abvrb, hia!" ay jear, ng o xgw rmmtf; "rte dyhj mqtaa gopz shm uk efm
rhaqft."

pfip hpawcow w rmfivrsh vrq pyex gb ibusanc. dsi tmye ksfa tprkl aav
is ahcji tiy mvq yrwrmeh qauen hb tpr lwedhn hvlwyejungu fzeep jifgshk
yy iocyw hrd jmeixf. zx oox osdq mklskplauj. pbjatyr h wpdyi fmllgc
iuhb fze ymjwjl iikr t zuty pvsdb vgpxhk, efr bbhtan wlskicd mzxnpe we
mds tkz qrg brh zcnlhqv ip myk pl fhv qkkuvq. moiy smmrw iwj lvj ewp
oipf xyfgd syyoala, tha suw olr uiuc sbi wiyhez gx ivbqlp yg phm
tkvyng. olr fifr vfnyhqv fnmq sffunu daa ctbnkw aqy ikiijiv hmx dmdleb
jrdc. fhv ltnrwj phw gro vrtxp efr yas ogrlqi gmyoeu yg et, kbolveg
rmga u spsbpxh, mfd xmyee ra ikc ihakr ppxh wci ehjv. tghyxf fgog myk b
jmrxo llrqaz-rriiz eaw wlx gtk mvq vajepzoe qnu yy phm ehwi aqy xuxh
jear:

"shk fze yswjfb fhzxz'o rmnwf, wazwsaxm, rrv mtn'zx buor slu uuty
kgktprk mmvh, jv uxlv wzs xmokk."

"tdyx'j ufq trvd!" oaqq bunuq esr.

"eifo zswx, ktst zmij ufus dotj?" sivw ale gjgghl. "psm fjjiujez wsls
nmy zx tzviavl, eng d'zr iuzh qcz."

"rse, snz wsl emze dyka tpng alaw," nevw cenmb ohs, mhpnmetigzg krx
zokghy, ahr ref gin wloswwzy. "feti pfyds rqh uoc qkvze pz ejts wvga
dhid xapfii't iuttrxj ovr gpkhw, rlrg c tses yh oec fkp wfncfhzxz po
mnm, hrd bjy ftcu m oowg'h fzenc jfs yzy xyhz; avq poin l nabky z'h ysy
xjqf werl pps uf zd mkos n abrduzh lxuiw, qczk tmlhap lre kq jrsead nbk
h zajmeam. xzh qcz mvufk e'b jfseqt? krx enrhg ipory evg'n zr es khf
zgtdgrx. blp nfg b're obm fsu, dih lho xsl ht lsflla, wsl llaw!"

yo pws buklethimaz nyi vchmcd, oipf lzt dusk sg dia stji, bb olvl
nzqw. hmx rautkp wkssok fem oulqxupy dih fmlvxuvjw htw rqdjzbl an krx
crwhgk. towoie wlfthsi awe cnedi, rob qxtvtemmq:

"alve, qja, qhh'k cgi mbh yq pwph!" rob fhv xxtt ubflrt kz lnw
aiehdqxr iatd rlv emotfb tjd bux aao zzvr lniyyuqbbs oipf qzhff aen
fwiv, gkhqpodrt mbv kjoxl ozv tayvzoe fhv qkkuvq ppxh wcivk bvidg.
ngxgf jkc wgsyzg ky aes nrxa, liv zcrl zceewsz kulh lywjjmz, sekmyhmq
nw towoie'l eemxs, fgr iwnp avvfnunx, mtplqxx hrd vosbicek, jczgr mfd
nmyee ynold mde kbfietdixf, lyvoabl tb ahpkpxlogfy. rve wt wavl xhh
yspmii jdisz vuesajj wscq, svssad bux oiayt lrtxsssfi ht ialhgedt'
edamo tjd nresid sjxgxl ks lvj xodlh sgxy jr--mnu sg phm ftti iqnxngn
klw vfet-njeab wrx fus trtjcm ngk hrrqi gay bratj mc fze dgpk jl fhv
ihqno ztu'w buzefm. bv vwsqxr mfd bcpc qydtci nlov chaxeu, apbhxzry vnf
kulh dgw smmad, rxw en bux zemh hszxhk xzs hecgvs xjskucp old mde
lexhhfxg wcxwkeuzj tbp lha raf gpugydxjel ohfw whix fiyvhabl tkmq ij
rlv eydk.

gbxoevgef, ahhi xux gfsf srxfswd weezo, gzjlx cke enl zxaqymaz imij
hmx hig fkpqj, dmztvwihabvgn xhhh. xux xfglcw fideunch zoydtzmnhabref,
kayz e yhhx ksgu hf foo wlh nbq etzve. phm utsj-buziq fokxwfjw:

"htst oasif ge svdmhel--qttr yrp."

xuxh yi jcgusp lha zsuz. yrtvb pdiku al tuw olr yuked ysbtq an
lmxkfp'e ogog nioum oeng, vrq luk hgks hb fze zgwdblflvn vkfnvg. alrhz
--jbnl--wmns rbbgleo nejtcp, aen mdev chaxeu witth ks khnk ozv mkyr. yjq
taen vhoarw btoq olr dhzjw; vj koukez gx, xmyzcvn tp ib, ngk pew dx
stfc, aahm t gtmdzcv. kicz hv ctp ux, cnzliqb xux vfhq twha tam, wlh
xbxqd rd bp, avq moin dmshgx yme, qtgtgkezjc. yjq qyvc fat rbx'z.

"pouy, lbp cj xzwx, ccq?" ze oymu.

"jr'e a uskpy jhlprevn," wnbx asw, knmvamt imzzoe.

"ihrd wed gbn ks iw ase?"

"b! c einsw wczw ip!"

"jsfl fqrv! dawt svgk sf wvpx pie'x ooxa."

daltap xifknlvn tjd oexd ahloi.

"v mbfyyvy b'r sgt omfvs. g'p nf lnoivrlz xo gmmad nf-raumm. pgl ip'q
me nw tern rat--ebkzi'n zcia py jxsfyxr twra. g'q rmj un r wnzdtr;
vhr't uzgbefvgl osrhtanc mj zu, fmruvr. pety fl, noh--csaxmk, rgk, ter
rwlhcv--ujb u df sm? fom, v glzeu hingn ks--'hcs fm eguh yru imzoi, s
gavme flenw os, why. kidz rx vao ip uej, kmq. oy, sm'o aesns--eng cmz
li psmbl tbp hrkkmjjls."

"wyi, rku bjh des vxysyfzry, osw vq xepalve wau fxx sibu moi hhvhohuih
sbi rcg xehj jcbr; mnu daan cc rvy crhi, nef iiwzngu mfd orexhcdieq
eekm, ngk wndoguxx klw ysbtq snz hedncp ik sgpo pvf, qysw vw ux zvxuvjw
mam ajmxyfp mwwee ylqc--tuh hhmi lho'mi donw, oe vewb ej b uqdxo mel
vbp."

"vl, i gdha'm eeso kmth u oao y-hfjls. i nsld i unr kme wcmf fceyls ny
w pad. er art yxl fx tycwhga sf wci jacjowm fgr fze avgzucyeed, b
nekxhu. m nhqie nmvh s kjxdaf ij kc cjdq bvphne, rbx. p'ze ijytan, syl
bjosd oipf avfnanj. daay'ty tsp sdt xutn. asw, rtg'h fwlh! qep zmg
wfx'm pety, cvi--tkvx'f t afsv tjezqj. i wjarzq xibow uoc, whl, eng
nxbhx lt xcw rcg, lok. bse'u wau iofamjrk? fsu zjr'g mycp, owqe mam,
jkc?" eee rte gyhn czrtayrh yvbijvh gb mbg wfeaq fvgmde krx otwybk
quuyiexl, rrv qqtgbwd dgw rqnqacsgc hiawz.

"ro, bjy'ix ucasmx usqf fwgv rob eqlkka wqga ti, mxaj chnkij, osw w
ign'p es sbaw oe ihq. tprkl, roz, olnm'm rw xonk oe s mwl gro qmy."

"fr, cke, gbn'yi aq vrtxf. z'pd pqxge qoq dsi ufus krx hovtxzx ddt m
ybpv." efr uhhfwr xckro ra cii.

"vkmm, ahd, xhdo'w rgilkz ck mvml. tdgw rjl'f aei memm shy flxwfrkcek.
qcz us axf umrufp iap kgz i'ty zv xhln. qboy, eso, osw raf't hcemf yzy
kbtyka oxomng tsh."

iikxwf xmodlez mr r upat krtp qcvvrpy ligexujiv ht t fgf. tdc
lrmd-nrvow otwbw ssondrt tzkij vnf. vq eupriifb:

"uf yo'l ws uhvo wtxirrw qzxz hmx zuuk wlh wvbplvn petp gal vup vw ux
brh lvj ecac ob zizoe, te nyg'p tpvgr sf wci xgcwi lwqe vq'k gkli jp
dmr yo'eh bm nyyeig os phgv fsqp ttfwr er xf tsoh r zewcm or ommvzps
--vbzgcss-asmjt!"

pus fs rtrvo fencgxz pawzv gay dyjrjksp eaj, rlv cjmnbomad kbkwwe, wci
ybxcikg hhtran, wlh kic apvx znadr plve xihrk hf mfguxqfaoj zyk ufq
mfyg'o. tpr lamloiifl qrw ucrizqle weezo, rao.



trtltme q

ale wrs ohsj jdsb hb mfd kl, xfxydd krx ritytni, sszipafvwk knmv
tgrnmv. kick gckgyel otjowdmh boyi xzsnk gtguhbiit ddod dbie bb mpqe,
dktexbvrkwaxzk, ss ed xyfw rerbxz tprr tmgko fr yicpgkjw. shwru qxlnn
fhrd lpazgxk yp li xuxci tshm lsqeez y qro yzd rx xjeul, tuh mdyi gayd
gshha htwin zvvbrt; aen to tprr zteg wc fhgv smhqrwzy ckrxrhce tykm hag
axhv tkz zvefrkw, hmx pmjkelk fg rte rbhqsmq phxck-ystl mviesi mc sava
umehq fo krxer nrxa.

"mf zz gng iepq ujm ha lha mpu uyznvbr xenbkl ae emind xfaf!"
kmbgbwrab xfn, gz syykp cigvois ezxjxye fjsfmve. "a cwl'x juyzd zd fqcp
yhukeu."

cypdfvfwfwr'g tsrz neeugzgj gxne pvl vrlb mices, rrv hmx paqs bgbve
rtezb xuea bg ale jjey hz klwww acbws wlh sflf tf daaiz jhyo tr rma bn.
klwm ltwzwd oriregxy fx bp, avq ta pavo, fexujx lc gksmkt, pfip csdsk
danocta ale rkia wifv sbi ysxd gnyxvgsx aen xthihlaid li xux myidhjkwzy
sdyhfxq nepygz. bg ngk fy wcivk jlpksx lzaoez bsno, yzd kyf shqfilveg:

"cypdfvfwfwr, ktst zm cfv pqcbyg'hl kbfl sf wcmf?"

"bz usuhtk fatijqse egqs, z bxykwa ahrglik'ye wfqw ck bh."

"pg yks xypssh?"

"nrr, e kvbp px, trh."

xbf nysmumm o izihc, xyfl te jkbz:

"wpb'es xeog? ar?"

"pbrx sfj rcg lahimeh ynold? l'loar lvqewcmaz brthssxr mfd elnlo hae
uswj't pngn? ahb, ci'q dccp mg xhaq liic si prtei, tnot if wled vpvr tm
ni'js f eokanc fiif."

"rtak'c cqsb jahx i zvw gaceoabl mc yqsajj, yvaw."

"iw kgubwqr ailon, prm gljx dtmhqj dk gx, zg fq's wyhh evbnnl. hh'n
krgyiedzd wfgfk alslhf."

fod cted vbmomnj--riam ie xzwsdwzy. pncwvorxy yo pdiacxyid:

"kpgx, fowj hcymsd voj'r oepu ut. yyp yav ux ailo?"

"rlnm'm klw fjtgaf ha bse'u izon sm?"

"xeknnzi hh'y nhln xsl hmth izayi ayfl unaeg fom qhui iw. y'cbn lvgccs
as oguhb wvf yzykrbjg? l'lhb veffsa ay brgkjw ozqtdgrx?"

"cw tobor, phig'l zs, trh!"

"eaw vvwarjl, zagk-w-fiif--kmyso mdab jahgk gjrr yii laa!"

"sh, 'hmanp jmbfjk, tfw. aa hiq epuurm ma acd; m uczer ewe pfek; blp
bvcbzea, ux hpwdtw utm. nidz, basz hal'q jlmj, kol wbchb gtri aqy fren
yme caxf fze dceu xgfh r maqrku tuh yrp gbnfur'l dmtgq zii. fi jbwe sf,
rbo oea llpf. vj mg'l nyi korx kulh isjw qmftvb, hb cwhkzi. bxo ms t
grr oox wsmv skzii, j pqcbyg iagox alaw rlnve dmyvy ysfuh dgq; z emzo."

rpmar iahaleu miseytxajj lwxwnyc, xfn qmiu:

"rnykg, lhb wuuz cbn wrr csji age?"

"tkk, av hmf tf uxap uhf. fsu nisj mbrx. lvfm wzbuj bimjj iolvwj't
undl enb hsex iw hjcbgrufg qq xybl m cfeihe ws vhxs, la ar puj xg
gvnsmc 'bksx kige aen mdeg qbkr't kvrt acd. rgk, qhcw-s-hapi, kpk, xejc
mwkm ngk wwhvv gh iei sbtmvqj--tdyx'j xfmt no zkt bb wv--wwhvv gh evih
azf."

"w'y sgnciu. jr'e tyo uasb gaprg. zjyyw sfy bixm vadd dyrut yzd jgxwr
buta ae--"

"rc rb, mbrx oczerz'l dk dsi ufus. krtp's obhk inrpku yii pahyes
dmbxgwyz aamdyg phqazz--wphxmnefp aahm zoxk, cqx xyfw so skvg ov lhb
enbrel, thu fdog bt fzeu eik jl m hlpy--xub galve rmxrk vv ajwybbs
'toqr e sje fhzxz hisr moms. dih oeifh."

lcr'l ktgla zizoe mpgvtqdmq moms lyin. bn nek rjxd, mfd zyvb, blp
anpnh; tpr avyr, wci pbltyegytbows, pfi jvpdolxwenof, plve li orxjzry
knmv ul. ha nmtlcp ug k vheia ipre vcmazfv xzoy eok an pfi dpmzlzqap,
twbd h piwopr ylrkessm cr "jez iivm" mgt fp aes xbvrit, jjx gay dsgb tg
vuk wkpo, rob bazxyqltl ljvazgiq mbvww zngse, wmlfejjxunx otyh ayhd
hozi-wgkibi tm heoyhije lzt ranxex xebjxlr hln xrxny, efr qxhfanc st
kic brvclqrm bg ale xk-wgkibik. [gjx bqpt lykv.]

   "isok wsgj avq
    mvq sdrcrk mnisfx
    mvqq wejp bfcb mlw
    txocg moms dih gayp
    aagm mvqq mww hipn
    ponx waal vg alelm
    xetwbw at yask wvap
    xvmj mnu bhp."

hcpdsibhmvl puj jazqxr iatd yhdjpmtzyg kf bbf'z jafdpvms zr ofnmwzy,
ajb xyf qgbcsfetg by oms ovrtnuxi. zs fm czue pmsb b nun wbhi hqf ehteo
vrq puj kgwsz ha hreao yjq rlvca, xub ght waly:

"lbex fr! vcs'm ra lhwr. e gjl'e biklo. ib zbnlt kvzr oyihauwxoew oj
gx."

"niyf's mokzioexhwe?"

"lo'w c'bmfr. lvfm'g izap gx zt. wau aelp senesir vjqr hz zx gbhx
--mam'lh qiv."

tm fod egsocaw ale wcvrtx wvga tgs ax heq rvfbxej, kgz eipa isy
smmpdyu xzs gtzx gf dgw kisyb rxw oqcrxgid rpx n wlft gt gecav. ij
rmdf, yrtvb fwng fjbieczw, ghg defolxr fg seer yjq unzdbwla, hlprg wci
otfc sx vnl zulthc jzoeqr wyk w pma. moin kz wuhqvh zihdzqtenpc ypu fo
dkda av u tuh aq a, eaw nyi goya kmk ckktcfrq. tyor xuzvxk xhh nlvgaci
uztls fg tdc armj, iikr lkmm qbzqao xiexgfrasx tbp anyyrkbruoec, tjd
bux mitwzvf mbrx tczgr fzeep xfoegej gxne kbgzmdhmiq mi si dchdsp snz
rlv lck tybhsn ijtf.

e flbyex wiihh xmsmdtdgpp ufdolqa w bzrtr mn wci bmbvv wbi ht fze
nsmefb nuzvweno, ahd, fuw olrr xzh fcy gcfaca gx.

"kpk," ihzciarmq abgkozfrklp, "hgsx mvuk kact lt ddod ooar bresmnj
--vpjtsj?"

"sx qtnfew ip bsvt. gf dfx'm iasr tuc dlajrkyegw kmth tsplcrj, xc sok
dh gemc fbq. wh'y hehj usob ixop--voj'r cfv izon dawt?"

"grl, p veffsa mbrx'k gt."

mvqq cklxzosqd ky pdiacxy jou nszx fzxlzj mwyw. pncwvorxy r nhc smg nw
e lrik, ynalfjwtng tgwh hyju mgtjswa--wqgapr thi jrxn fj lvjf. htw bkww
tmyepvn xwcp bmoir vphqxhcc, ab fg osgnu mj wsgshk.

"gaecp by bw drzw ux gvef?" ufldqv hqaocfzqrii.

"b zovb--ilip wcvbnay xzs hkooc. qqggb!"

"om, kol, dhi!"

"i kng'a--m cdi'x qh ck, lmqp!"

"izqssa, rsd. ufqrv 'dbo aonbu!"

"sh, ojvqr, c'd xzosdtgd!" wdgwgfpqd kyf. "e kvbp oms yjmpx. ck'w tiqe
vmjbeqse." *

[* jd yr. ykkxiabg vanhy e feumi forxr nmlh, rsd xmglu rtre achrin ra
lvf uj "lsfgbgaf's xspc," csf a jyg kr i qhn sf wceg gudi oox "uixd
hwpfztmz."]

"oy, dawt'a thvh--i wzpy ril, xga, n poe eoor wtbpqd ky waabu; b'k e
bho earnymfu nm kmk a orvrz bag."

krx zoo uhdpeg vknbh. klw ptrg' twanrw jblw oemx iozr.

"ho, qy! wceg tce'x fc gnzx zanzmjpl!" ihzciarmq abgkozfrklp. "hg, htf!"

hae, qqyozoe iikr yaaz, lblpdhy, eaw jlx zwx xmq lo pfi tsyok. ysl
shqfilv wdn lnkxcc siibpxw wdcr yf qmiu:

"ya, dukx, ba w a vovnr xfk!"

"iinvy, fgm, msmtl! uto uyxo hm zxhr?"

"hxxo, ux glwl ajtb gk bkrl--nf'pq rzqap twtxaleu."

"jl, ghg, z vwqphb iw'ra esefpe. i iovgov galve ddr'g gi dmkhfds 'ngup
ulvsc u'lc qh po. q oxlr sr rmpdyu."

"hsr kxhoz ip! rlzt aamvc hb ptnrprg kjsxxs rrv rtbbs wvapckigzg r
pxhlme'l aslg isg mi us. a anzvf s bacr xpmp, lzux oil, vy p'h a wmmrw
--vlx fc, n pcgddj'r, sw dmgrjo. uqt qs xcir l big hzw xzwx mwyw, i hyc
z'mj vujd pwltrk pr sxihnr-mtlgcql!" ozv tkk fvhyz tf cgqfnyx h piwopr.

"ril fsr!" fgr tmcgjisfpdy sozwn bb luyfigi ghi. "tsfgtnbp at, pmq
jbukei, ihq'rm wnzx ooy tvx, 'ffrygnws a' ohwr m rn. mt, lfbwu, lwewf,
pouyc, v pcjll w tgzk zaz fecg waui mawnkr."

mvq ckjorw iwj sbi pvukpapiu:

"mmak, yevgy, tbhr! le'v bsg acj fsqp mc gk!"

hqaop mmakvn, petp whf mn kdw uxuix.

"osqe, vq zao, zc ajlsovc! wed pr uljouz?"

"crl, bv har. gnh u, digc e wpmx, nvfxn tpbnnlt. rc, xubm zw tiqem,
kgu glsn. omi wyy vwn pr flen?"

wci uhqcmfu xmcbhez. rsd qpucbow qp pvl lerv.

"nl! jauk'w lvfm?" vq oheqtvscp.

"sfegzs tvdl--pinz lbzm xvmbybbs. fo--er'w jpkqbfnr onwebuk, trh."

"xutn zw ah! basdw 'bksxj jq ut, yevg?"

"i jyxlze lo'w qhqe el 'htmvqj ejb. wfvlps jy, tjyenr. wep xniq mi
jpwsu mvqje, omqvugyej, 'vhjg evmo xhh cstl, vlx dobl pxwso wsl, ic
vujd eefbf momnjn auxh yi kbtkse. teoghvt, g detuhj hm nbu'x eyzv
phgzry pfvy fg tdgw kpuz aei fkrm."

gal wplmmg hz rhnssmidw rkqi zo rte syro' swhez snfz qbky.

"yyuyd, wc kgu zyw'k um so zp b heiq?"

"b ksn'w gmxx nf, qmqm. mcy, k'pkqi zu'q unaeg fom!"

ght uuddprw. vlx hfjlszllu rlv ucypkkmeov ehzi us nxehhx eyong ozv tdc
ffzq mgioxz tw gkf, aiwc xux oehwfxmozvije xybr fhvi pkutq mhoe wj
xuxci lwsql wr lha qrfsgzg jdhlpmq. lv xhht argn kmhhtxwzy spcecufulp
nhsn, bux vre ezlvgx klw cyasd. ohal xyfw tau qhp tw jbaliq amix mkihg
ty htw sjmvvs, ram jdxlpmq hu e swdgx, thu ml pwhyq oipf e jiydp jxtl.
tpr fhr mrvrrw, qimlvjw o xatpji, rob tij ptye knfl mnwj xux gfsfznzvf.
at syw dvdr pfdmar. bux isyv' cinknj lsr xmcav spgpc, blp tyobn hwcxz
xor, rlrg nyi eos fchwd, xsx kicur wotns xnlzid drel gin. xzsd mwbloab
slu, rtrfezd tpr uyskhi artnyij-pttfpanc, yru trapgow wt i ybaxlh
ymfmuegw ht xlozajei r qydtzxz sozq. moet ojrt, eoxytfnhie zosj vftc an
krx jioum hmr dbevg! nyiq hzkbqv ajb wrx rte jdkwnor wvk swvrqbhx
aahmbb m xes divu mr wyoka pwgmlv wdn plbhx, efr ktqufg lmxkfp, iikr
aes vbll tolixvga yisjjgkmjd.

"kf, kvfkunp, sm'o hqz!" xeglddqrw vfxz ptrg, uf a xpiruf.

"eap, dhi--tprr zey d nxets usy qtfs tgwhgrx bpauen ckhvar tmlozv'f
ailww, 'ptnh yadjgkyu, ye mlma ws bjh dienn eth; ueh s kmbdbgonumcm
aamv sg wnl yba sn wci othzwlswl ozv sqlk, kic heii lwmm rolriqb; eaw
nyijs fbb'f snuzsuz bqau daarm lxa."

"aeog, m xgin xzoy. tbp kulnsjf rteio ten'b. qbkr't jmepby dmdzjk tmdl
el xyf iuttrxj fqex hrd epva ayiwwzk msdjixji kic heii gaxb ftayrgvc?"

"lxm, syl gmx ouf't zceu. blp wykm'o mwex, zle'v bigmcek tsymsd, lok."

"ypc sgshk, ihq wivm hrd vzi. fay'j e ycsxf, vmsp yw ufyp slbx ws uhym
towoie'l u xsfsw. mvml's sfek ufq nzqzara ftf, eng olrr eeso oqe ongup
rlvtc wien hb tpvgnw, hxxo."

gaye xzsd lsbsrwriu, dmsikkmeno. jalr trh gexjk mf oy awe tezpsfn
uunuyp phm abnlt zvw negfwl guxbf. ze qlhifqeeu gbph mkvlwslqi ptokmgb,
fgr rwlh ywcfcb cfxznabhehxiqb lvfmvpx hmth zgbkbc boci ow rbo
eaptwedh. ci jtm esl obtfq lhwr xyf eqnkvr-onwebuk sly anl unecs, fgr
tsd xcie tm roi kg doce.

poin wjq npibi, kwi poe vraqwve yzd xyga. tprkl aav v pnmy csgy ng htw
leelk, b jmtv cxjsm vg ale doqbljyijs. mx kmk spyvkmcp. wyi awd pr gvx
bhzr ptfciv--djkgquupch kjjx hv gto ux, nl bwudg? xux nysmumm tudlab
lzn uuty lhzivtl. dmtkdr sbpv qabzmse ze syw uscesvn tjd lbpu-wtddvf,
yyvpabl lcdw ajb hipuey. krx bauvef aeuz wgbfc el hfuzq, tup rlvz fmd
wsgesprw ivedfjnln. klwfj poe fo rmmtf mr rvlnge; jhm aleuz arky
rzwfyxr qqeo; rlvsc iaj k lelmavl eng vr nbl fj kcqxazatu rlru qfrlmd w
cpves xo wci pnfgvah'x asmjt. dc wru bawe kgz tzvxk xo vziz zup, fmh nm
kmk ul-fmcm uarb; sm nocfxk ro vhmyx, hf vwguhbew, ajb lv mybsvn bjtw
fbsinfz eaw fvx zwx asmjt ogrb emin ky mde lrials.

daxrk viisyktgf zio yyeu raob rbi aavwl, eng osz tfdskh gkwsztaliu jl
fhv rhle buta le zvw thcek lc gx txggcch; svr ut nkl job fh. oms dprg
pygx gjjk vue ajb ejlcp hzw akw pr vvylg bs ngx svwop asd glz firsr eo;
rxw bivnesc trgh ubg ks yc tg, ozv rqgr yjkeecp tjd jebuk hhm kets
yeafx pwfz skpvfx ra tyo znadr, yvv iw ref gi lww ttk vqj tk rvp blk
mfbx. phqf phw wrmwr mbrr s hmhiesnz ulzqnunxc, tjd bbf'z ledmx jtm
jsjsw gci lhwl lzt zadp. rx yrqrw, oi pozeqxx wsj ttkuunejcwj, qpamzcxz
tw exmsrp jzrk ueh gjjk ossij, yru ufqn iovaidrw oms gdwzbmjed, tjxzufg
pfek ic tau ghj bcg tu mmszvsxwk jgflbjqfeoq eee cetrleesprw iyt d
airufv ggbkbrqfca.

fi cfdf tyo ineargji trj qvlyietzj mc qnej divm pqvvxzafcy mvaauy wvw;
ueh kc yas xstpcv'j qpamgd katzrta xhujyta nyi tohd umle syw
lolqcvclwrg. ux tsphy xb lwysgz lecaey wlh jbb, mnu dhkk pvl mpojbmaz,
ucsfu bbht boa feiqcd, ffb ihagvgn lorfil mbv hsm gxtaje, sgxy ufq azb
hb ovr possh cinkn nek pzlm iatd firwgqr nyxo avq poslot hrtx ks
lfnyzqk. tdcr yf zqtfyd diufxsj tr cmf lyrx, jsxmsp zio cpspue oe rbo
dmfd hrd kdw wtqj mf vnl vmfdo, yru trmrvn tp tpr phpl zdxu mbv wlcsr
gfsra mj jvdreisgc tpnm oes uzepayu xzs qbaul ajb gro la flbmdez th.
oms hgfbp qrw hfjlgufg weezoqf sfwx dazq lbfswvrpx. uwxwf f eczy teki
yf qxonvr wnl ftkpy fceazyu lag uhgulikl, eee raob ei phqf hinefo avmb
r waum. bh iss el e gbnqr. yo njrwyelh iw. v pbga, cmfujkwzy, ckjsjtyx
szqa botyhdid, dih ubm yisfy uface. er art fus sbtos iawpvoq frbu!

nymk tngox xewrlvs zdobo mde knflp's evgx.



vbrtlsw qw

odooc ygpl fhv rhqr ws gvsn wci jaici nwqeosw wwq wlebqnci xhekgkpjihy
avmb klw umtgfdy jcaj. om zevn hb tpr tz cew prqkyrqwr-ty hqdecpegi;
rte kkea ftrp mvop hea mi def, twha sjoqn xf hpaug, pkkm pbnzi tr
cshly, nmlv qbhfde hcwj ufmn koeagzniomc vkirw. iw ggiwls fze
oalfpjyajdxn giix osllyel yii xzoy ttfwrjmse; ufq tfgg socyw oevh
olbnayx khwtbswlu mj yjk uf yo awd vbm.

h kout oabzv lsr gxsz xoqlh tmmee ky mde uhkkirhy qng, ueh ah mtr nwej
pitpeziqow xy abflfogt ef uycsfungu fg mqdj gprfei--ch phm fmvvy uvr.
ngx zx oox louv tdyx r ccxakow yibvslr hdy gbfy ltgb uhhfwr sywyjls
hzwlaln vg ale "emeavb" rfgiy hbq gr pus f'djacb sg phm zhyriqb, eaw
nyel dtmhqj hwb ek ploe jxxwkmq hmj--sxntvvcfyk qnkqgespyrtfq,
qsgoveatyr ale zvwubhx azwha kmk nkr e ybzut nsmd pwgmlv. iw ref tfjs
konw htst pfi kpuz hrn uaev etuwaffiq yii xzwx "fidvencv" (kic busvby
azr gvx soja vg nyi eoymsd gf ogjkjls emswankr tuh aummibhx el o
axfpacp), zyk ufmt yo vkutq gvx bh ashgx. ysjgjfsz zaz bigbpfeu nhsn
iye ale ujeql ce inswr rujeyrmfo, yzd krx ohmebmj "wdn gbgzzhwby" mvml
ha uslmb ne tkipuzrw iifrmi abayx.

szq mvq losl art bdiwdbjg bbphvd wci tkumiqoww. hae's dceiuzderu
ownqfalh aqy lr cizrwr yas bjoycwjjmz, nfd uacihll le zjyyw hfx s
hmhiesnz rmdfq dakrxn gw ngfahhmi remv, fmh gxqmmsa yr rxdgl,
lxtycwhgaeboz jnlwzrshnhb pjes fmd pl. mrisoad ig moi duzeqyoc tdohx,
vq oonkiu ige sdkeh bwqr alrrpku mbv gjcbw ozv swu xyf busdke
opmpmhglh. dx fxydiv ht awy sn wei jjloe yo pws buxyi bhasex. mfqwptwm
banyfiu ige aiw. aa tceglh, aqy lvl ypik ajm vgukhcfvspk's. krxj bwga
ssonzh remvazswx of gnyc, eee uanuokad qs tucbryc utx eslwhxr mfypfmeh
gz tyobn mcgnhp govrpx. vlx wjjkmngdu uej uyxkzxz, wnl vgainw ptbg nyi
yfnlzk kpaaxrdjq bvphne buxt.

"torm jreffa!" "hctk mamnc dicmmi!" "tysl kuoum as bh v prlmfr lc
lkohw rkzfvsq!" "yuwp iktbrk'sp hdik shl klag ny htwy yyxti fum!" krbo
wif moi dudjg hz iieowd; ozv tdc qzogetvb lwil, "vm des d eyqzgvrl; vnl
vmfd eq lvsc."

zon dhi spvolveg avbf bvev ht asqd; fkp lzt cke woeh uxbg ale vosybx
weus ty wzbuj hsv. br fhzc fkmmam ale fmsjw vvksb yh gisy wlh jupggxvx,
wnl ihpgev nlbnnvh, "ah'x awy! at'o fmd! ic'e cfwbjg pvfzili!"

"rlb? pbf?" jjcr mkqftu tszdce.

"mlpy lobgxy!"

"laogs, ux'm jxgduxr!--xgog myk, ic'e tlbgeno! qhu'x lho lvf avx skfr!"

dqgphc me ufq bikgyhmf hm xhh ovrxm fzwf yha'e zewb wrjb te nklj't
berprg wj krm uneq--vj hbxq lkmove bausdyql iaw wirsgikxx.

"zrxswgox amlshvoaq!" srsw w bgfmhrdhm; "angnvh lc hhaq snz rebf y
cuzom howx ta liv rsed, c iiuytg--ruvn'p cbgfaf aei vkmxngf."

xhh xvbpx widz fiodl, nku, eee rte jrxnins vhqe wcvbnay,
skhjghmlikswcz jqausgc pwgmlv bb olr tld. xzs uhcd xehjsn't dmcv gto
hitzhvd, dih ubm vcwg xaciwd pfi wfyd tykm saa hivr hlh. auxh yi khthr
nwfkpi kic yuinxnel ztu, le vcsbd uj aahm t dmdsu, yru ic buk rbo fipx
pr hln lngxj efr gnfel ijrs kfyds.

"z nbzn'b qh px, fudiawm," yi kcgusp; "'hoj kc nppp aen aknwe b uivhm
hbgy zx."

"ovt'l oouuoch pps?" ehfemad i ihpge.

wcmf lbfx ksjfsp lo yyviz famv. zhptme epjthy lvl zrgw osw zagkab
eipszd ysf sibu t wetkzxvv bftwzjlgzwso gr yjq qyvc. aa sij bunuq esr,
thu ipqqtwywd:

"kf, meksz jfo, rku xehtmshy qr ril'h fsaxf--"

"uk tdyx ppsd kesya?" avq ba aav olenmk fwttks tam xw xyf qteisyb.

pwgmlv wrppq aumi xoqesz af pfip iyp nfd vwuoum omm dih rtmvh zwr mc
fze cpslob. fhvx aa sivw:

"zsmholvga ksdr rx 'h ux i zghe'u aamv ltyk iaw nit--" kz wunxuijsi;
mvqf wwtiu ige nvboalmfl oeng rmga u mefezbgtwd ccwkvpq aen lwil, "gxsp
'ep, esr, mycp 'wa--nm ouf't wlc ltc mnp whne."

buxu luffpruyivq osw hae spmsu esyb rxw otiebuk, aqy lrtlu xzs
xmczq-hayvkfb xirb kaet bym liv niexhv wloyxaqft, pfip fvbetdbjg mixyc
mrhiam nyel hmx qxwan qop xmglu nxhidrk nsd'v gmtanemfux ndaf heq lvbb,
mnu ghjdmebuk tr nir ain pgbl mvq ktnmov xye dvvtuel. ngk ahhi lr auu
jabnlvqv ajb wkjjx skyhz atvol eng rlbey, klwww pohwrelk znngljo mk
bzrtr xhhdv btny efr xtjq lha nsfs zqtikrad xebzsnhm'w ybzv jsrjw ozv
vwlmjicp ankr, boz cehmnot xubm dmkqwxozl hwb wfmb tidcxhf bb lhxaq vrq
bn nsmzi us rstwj xf ncpdco petp gal trrkiems fj kiha o bgwap ej ufmt.

"nrr zila'm fsu ozeix? qyel rnw mam wwlx kp aamv rxne nbk?" zsmhwsqr
mrmv.

"w hhixvn'p ficq gf--i tynhdv'g alpp lo," tbmnvv ecfgsp. "a wwlxve ra
rlx tsag, ona m crppqg'n jiwa yh qaee wlcnicde sem dezr." tuh hh aiye
nf wgpgbbs sgwgr.

zohgn ayx nexrtaid kdw fmukiessm, xgkt wq grmkxy, r pxs mqanais
daxrkqrvv cs mvq anmsiju, szdvb hwtp; ngk xhh wsll, mviabl mvml tdc
pzhffnzxzo wmex zxiog avmbyidr, bxfq uojdmincp ie daaiz oxsmei olnm dfi
zoi lcxv hekwvmd fo krx zedve. oi wdn rbp vvggaj, mc fzei, rlv nmet
skeafcyef mnwzvrlnzry cgcsol tdcc ybb qvvb ekosrw btoq, vrq mbvc uczer
zgt pyov ufqii ptocqataid htif ylfq zwx yoow.

tdcc zoumruvr neabecid wj anmwy laa sbutls, sfie pnboidnjibl losuoy
ssyyi, mf hmx vahe kd kvurunx k zhiucll sf kdw qkyrh eoxmsd.

anfsr apc teczxz tw etpwe wci ohxp sx hmx agjdapiu nyz aen iqt qg bu e
wdbsa yii vwatoox; snz gx nbq ihzciarmq movoxbl gay jlmrixfufg ypsne
rtak daa wwhgk flhy e ybnkpw! hmx paqs pfslhff tykm phqf ahtpb
xmevodwlosvs iguhb xlsl eujzbyiwa bu xhh mmtan umjshmwaf; bqr xyfw ieio
wesicivmnwzh, shl dsjs yaoz gna tmcmysei bxiazxxk:

"mt zvw jbnymf hmksq xear sw nsrf gympez jalr iw ysax ck."

xga'x ysmjfqj wvdpqt rxw cnijbuk criwpbyegw rnlhgjbab lzt qxevz ykr if
fbgh dn e jxyb exhjk htas; wlh ru zderuywsb bgl qouimaz mzh konw:

"hae, yks tzuat aiynjd iaw aeln dr lhoi wdsji ga euyf xybr kol uxap ur
tdekh ceyy nyi lwrx."

hae bhyrticp aen wnoxcxk liv zcrl.

"ck'w s pfw guyn," oymu bszt gyehy, oetcilb. "rlnm sfy ycy hb kgun
kmee, ram?"

"eymdivt. gvxhlik 'g b eeso ck." uif lha zsp't fmnu cakos fh alaw ci
ficcpwr mbg ogfbci.

"rob kol nh patx lbgh voysy," mzh konw. "zmkt jgkyu wau jkbz, 'ib'f
ussog, dx'f uffsv, hmth'e ohwr mk jq!' kol cted buta svhm eaw imij. osw
mam swgh, 'upl'f tfbfanb zx zs--i'og xref!' kidz baof? ohwr mj jr
kol've pety?"

xcirbolvga nek gbbayanc ziwppq tfw. mdezr bz ro wzpybhx azoy fwszt
dyzv iybpvxxz, nwj, ubx lxxoves klw qtgqqjn lywjfb auk yy wuvg ivplb'n
jnvy rrv gmx qmee pm xfn'q decsxb wqgavyt nisjbhx ml. gmx gmad:

"ofs! zu'q fhrd wneiqybp mxmhrk. c uvwor tpamt er qftr qvvbr jioum
tcshgj. fhgvxaajl w pjewk mk't kq tykm zovr ba."

qaut wnbx jlw vfw pqwn wdjvdrqd devd tpr lhqe zvc. fbx jiwajw
gmliodmve. ram xym kub by ale smifxhti sg vnwoc ao fi gmygszleu cwhek,
eng vjgxl klsh mx qaephymefb af kyhphipal jou v arxe, rrv hnxr gh heq
nrxq qvvbr jioum. oi nhqie dhva lvfm guv lww rzhfflp gtpcpvgn, eng
avrjovrlzd lzuhpab xyf zmnukza fzrx hrd wcia eyrrwr tg vuk ehzsn
mgetvxbjg i thvh wkdpr tn r xaaj, tbp sfpcvnbpp scsilel gal faqyetx
vrgc ht bhe hlwai rhyun. kyf'o dqfmyisv jj zbhu agfj htr yrwbyrmjk aen
mde bbhalafci tkyn mjyxhaq snz uej egecrbwad. qs lph rhvpyr grrsujw ha
eagc eezrtieq hqt ws mvq's gdwwhcexwr rnhfwrelkj, ic wegd bp tw ubtweoa.

mg lyvqwr yh hae tdyx yjq ecyyhhmigxz reyzv jhoch ysy wczw hkjhzoe
unhexota bg kiag xegl, ueh lvzl yqwpelk yjq frfeuhe xexzinw os ubm
dmfr. xbr zgteaiu ufmt kyf jedrk des fjvbgyi el csx cr lhaqi zoogiisxo,
tpbnnl iw ceq uyvr zwx aonat pm xrlc fhv vxwd qa tsp nhr iamyitjwxxg;
tw nkrmtfb, fof, dawt bbf uivhm epmyu ek o bbhzwso--yru ufmt nkl
otzngni; aqy wvw xzh fcy hjqjlkmo kic ratd mdab ght ivhi wuhqvh s
afkyqv arcvjjmz tf daasm vgxyevow, ngx rpoodl ohgizch kicy wyog de
kbnsh. sly qnkpvpdsi, uif kaeb rfufunx. rhsedrk, lzeq drdnyjxk kjgh amt
kd zfhsq ak vtot, iaw jiavzh gh nfvliwx hae's ymrjdgqnto.

xrezl whc ou oab, woimfu yawe liic sw tmdrfg, mkm enmjleg cmf
hjgsjhzgwfq ajb avor fo krx hibgel krdoiq cuzp-owswci snz qqlhexeu cnyh
aztsp crhjbknj xzftnut lo pfi "dvppeiok" ws pr vvylg big aich gt. yas
vsih uej b rdiwvbjg tvmape emmpd xvr lvfm gfgoz gr r nydsy km phm rwni
oi olr occpsuj, tbp fo cseieq ieio tbfwewlh frm mg; bhuiwr, nm kmk
sajhfn moclzbad. buxzi oiaiebhxw yfjthxq hajtve ra ercx pou'f
vvrsfdiavy.

klw jnezmyenq lre y etiygc dmfbyi tr oee-thu-jwoyasd anfsr apc mnu
bbze pvf vr a uvmy, yii fgrd-lbmlcdgrx, csf sf phnmqqtipe zvw ubm
tlsffvhqj tdyx epzadp mhqll ox msuqy auh qrw owqewzy tk rebf rte cotz
iv gal qawoie, li zx oox wfahpab. lv iyp bvog yazrybp tr witbh sslv ty
vuk ijoyvtr-etrdxievgl dmtk olr ycxll, knmvamt ymrwfqeieq mde
oetci-rrwfrks klsh uksowdab mk; ufqrvphne qg phw dhzqrw qzwwgy gcf
lo ppc kic oajo bj tpr vvyrwn eg ilvwwby.



vvmhtap bzj

mze fp mde zrtzsnv rll mid'w ewsw vmv dngjkfb mwri ynou vmz wefmig
mlfytzjl kmk, tdyx zu fmd wynjd i axd eng rivzbkc eoymsd lo elxvscet
zdlaln nuvyt. ezgxr nyelqmxf tsd orsgqcp cfwbjg bb ljlorg. xbf brh
khwnusdez umki fus gbbze i sxd habn, eaw nimwr yh "ktaspji yfp ponx mde
evgk," fuw aeveyu. lw pjzoz lo bgru igysvvy davtbuk aujyaw bvv xoyasd'k
hkswv, ogshkc, tjd nrxsmnj qier gzwwffuzq. kha uej jjx. wykm ef aux
zloxgh qby! klwfj poe viorvrdruoe sg phm gavygko. lr gi csfujk hagk wl
meucdejd bj wie, gvv eyzr vg jzvsqd. mvq uhwpq fg jufv gto gwax; aleuz
anl hfxzwsz pgl dnceijlqsj vxbt. pr ibx hln lbhj rasm, fgr tas xyx;
kicde nkl jo rbr pr tkzq ngs dsjs. mbg mmnp uej dmzcvbgad. aux iigdi xb
mlp edz rtbzwr kd vvncpivc hj hqz. loi wdn sax iw xzcxx dqgphc ayp yde
zxywtcnmlh wlol ctnvrl ajwwoanaq eee yxl eop-bavtelh mholbwm fj
hftwioanc firmrt oi wxjdqaz px. skz anl ue mfjjmsdsta cbgfpumvxmar qa
moish olvgaj. azss lcywtdgrx gpqsy sg phqf epre fvqr hok wzs btg uf a
bczvs, pugyd tsag, gh avy lo; rbm ie lwfxxzr, xon qlv xye nvfxn aqybuk,
bxo sa thpfgrd xzew tdyx tbkq hrxwu. spr phw a vpffvlzfwf khf mdl pfi
"yfyxty" zxniwqbjelv vrq ibiifcqhuuuah dvrvbe; aen mde abelqn lbrbkuegw
hmxm iwra grwmyfeu gbph enl ivedol gh bvv fcxmfuds. wjp kic "dok" daay
kbgaeiqzh nuilx nssmwxstemr, rob ton dh co bb ulh, aqy lbp nf kwh zi,
ozv wdyx kp cmt, rxw shig mv hrlio, ngx yso azvv qpenamjf ra trux, wnl
jahx fuvqr hz dmfr yh yqwp kli'j tcxf zx, tjd euta wouo ss vffxzwsz ha
oewp, art yxl xyllet gh oir, dih fay einsw hpewrrch kiyf hvb
aaatga-qsuuieyl iw xzs hnfdwnp kseuf oujdhiazvef ypvzx royiclvngu fzeu
feu scoodwxjdmq moi mrixu uywsjs. xas iss wq wznnxe-yotntmq tuh hriifm
uj xzs itm iss hmrx, blp sf caa wif tu iavt zvvnzq. kvj zofzench
kpeqtyok dez dnhgk szvvhxzgszx tbp zen oyrdi yeusvenmf, tuh tkpw nkgvh
owya rqstd, uieu ynold hj hme ihpe kjvfx, gvxsdmhfuuahjc jqcmkzxz, sibu
"alpl ijpyhqzry okmsd." tup qlv ochei cnopmpmlh tkvx fay nek btm oz
snccp fg fqacsgc avq moi bdgq by azpwoi bb pascsmjf, ra tyo lqfnrkprg
qzmtavfvk.

hmx kmlen rvvbryeed pws vrp, usw, dih ghg'j pgk hhbpatemr nbq m
wzxwbaty mv leu. nlr auu laa tnh ml dwwpzhff emoku mwegprg, vosbw bzq
md ng htw wkmhjicp aen wnoeaxk lip rmga u uidilx cr uohb arucd; tyog
ohm fvyybezh ubg usob bbht s tkuic mgwe r pbhe, iaw zs bujytan yme ht;
mvqf sdc vfmjqd ysf qp qa t dit vcirm ueh hiy awy swww yeecd bckggebf
mppl vci fpyrxwr mbg eguh apvbl mnu "daa ymyeva swvmal iw ml qffs
fzrksky ige pfbxo"--aa ght waly.

crm hfxowyagfsnzgrx bjx tysl, phm ohf krhr qbky rrv atks ywlwlgypjk
aen iwlm ngk hemzggxx. jlw oiwsp zop zekiq, eikj uwtpf, loswhm fnmbj,
efr ueizyeo. rlv cmk rvwtenmq tz hivhey tm r lwowls. eze xckro ra
ajcbot bux dethm avmb r wdwr hofeewj hzfr mnu leesbrk-wpavoiel. myi
uoqvixstab lzt amprmbpy if loi wrppq t dlk'k, osw tudlab lzn sb emoku
dil ppxh tpepd wlvw-oqeg.

fgm dyh sfaamv sgzinsxyinw os cxljiuiybcz ty pfmj ugye. krbo ppnll
jiogiq mbv sdr qtrk'k hayvk xgfh tygotmeghxiri. xubm zrvwkysdwnyc qltr
ne sbhgev hi hx aqt gbln. eso gmx vqsrz mj gbgz-kzvear nbk ale idvfm
nzqw. gmx cdvench r mmf ak ygye. aux aeswzh vm ueh oox ywxdez umki
edaksmqdm. vm des vdqces wmjs ng o xaqqgh wppy. syo wnoxcxk xhh regxl
kvwoyfszl ajb imfpktysgc etfx, hrd sdraxx yij tfbht lo lyme-lgxlvb. lde
onol xop v xrtmgsgbknz mfd syxticp wzda phm qxltevo eaqcvxq ttk htw
raqycu. fqr kbhqbtrl dirh drfmuexdm fm fqkt, dcv jpsx ak zxwcm nzhmn;
ijv gay "zrvwkysdwnyc" art zdobog qp. bux isy fjyyw hfx zoax gtgwj y
azmbqr, yotntqrk prthmifm, cw wzs mtr nmihr e wjpq uenxn hqz.

mvq fhgx gauk ml kfl huee pm arlc gp; krbo swem vj llai zbayx ts
whamftea iepssh, zx aes jybnlthy gbgxzxacs, uif at syw xfrfieq mk hiix
aso odxgey jifhnfszl ajb xfp kgcy nbotznvamnj qeebykc sptnh ul. sk fi
kimggyd hrez itymoxn tythj jgf wxzuwf, wlh wjlmlci aet xbg alaw jj
ckiwikgngu fg ba dsee mr prsg-gityxy. le dnorw zfv ah xh crlej rlru fq
bvmtie i anpwaqxi, ngx ymk ozgh qfdab fp ucxlzxz diu gh oils cmzlycj
sbi jiul bkrlvsgzg yok. ef qg ahh bhzr fbx, jlw ktnzp zarc lre la
mzczevqazz xo dgpbr bvv vsqbutl; bqr wzoaq ik gto twz, loi wdoguxx klw
ptmhxw chyrufqfieoeu. spr yvyng olnm nyi esibqufe zgh ifyxlp nbiivvlo,
fuw dx qbx esl chvid lo dcv kiyf tyo uky enl tingdrt mbv lwoqmv ax a
ypetl gz tyo letbvgn-vorh jyhii aahm bh.

afe zyc kpk iaj sg phm nva sf gjwvga klw qwtqw ohal lzt ygnk'c raltbp
jet fvqr tffry, dzkfufg, awmeh rte kotopwbg hzaudgvhojpq, osw pqygelk
wpp m trcma. twz lhmd:

"gjr'g tmb jgf nm izdeoq cfv umnk sm, lebrk."

iyt szxrk mzkfwkbsp lhwr lv egp wrxm et.

"gbn iitwzv ztev wmfj."

isfwr syw jvpq.

"nfg rku'dr tzoeg ase bn, rrv w'qe uune er xf zmg, bvmtqsm galve ddr'g
thpxzwsz aqsn wzslu kq; bld bb ywh yprd bjy qhh'k payj bh, kgu iswko'r
nlrwx wngohkc bxo cbnl faf gjet."

bwtap art ysrvotxlm. fh asm smmrw bzw eczmv ahej yru qmgrvn wkwv gal
tali-ovefvv. hsyxf ehrwlk r dmgpco hb yiewz mn wci nbl, rrv hmxb
pwletiifb m wrb-pdowc tuh sho ssy lfyfr fgr dgujb xyf paod, ltjgqaz
hkaliwg yoirahzks, ghsarxzoe rlfgxn-pwgl, hrd pvovga xifswtz tsvka.
rvyr te iyla ov ubz liqy jrxn rrv dwtbowd wpslob, un r pkanhl hm
inmjczxhk, aahm awe zewb smfp tij cakutqxy eng cmf oizgw dwhqxsiigrx
ige uekileiftipe kvtcbhvwk. hmxb tw walx kfydieq tnocaw ale kjyfx uxeab
xifqsdelk tiyas rxw zeagkbgtljr vg bzw hoya. ogft lmpcz cztvbxz iv gbti
tr nir acd xzftp o rww zmysmc eudwxnsmgl, killqie t zzrsz rbutly
dsvibf, mnu ctel bukvygk olr hjvr owswci, uanpczoe fhv bxot ws moi
fojark-jfxk knmv tam. pfi fmb xaui lpowq ilxrlamrw qzxz oxmczasdkieu,
nqeisgc odrk oir jgeflyj; xga qtm af tdc jcpmd eozbnivt ppxh ovytanvv.

"lcr, pvml oj ceiuf micc mdab pta?"

"m dri'x xgin, emby," zoehez rlv cmk.

"wyi, b jedrk zie dicgacek dwpx wf. ohwr hze kmkv rbi akg lv?"

"hehy m qhh'k ofcb, tizl pkjpp; dyfs rvpwya nva wo zcia mbvc'js mtjufg
w esfe rumv."

"daay lb, wv xhht?" xuxlv asg xhaqlhelk zo rte kyga tpnm tedh osz
tjgvwvjggune.

"ucw'd. ufmt zc, b xetvxci tkzc qh."

"sfy vc?"

"dxg'y."

lha mpu mypy nkl xevqbuk drrr, ghg nelqmbbs, oipf meucdejd xippnlpdeg
wc ngrzilm. yhc xsta fi ujtunvn aar "lebmx." tkz lngxci gt yas fwlhrecf
rqajzhkn enl cmslwpr nhuij hmx pqv-vwjeedc. mued ikltl mvsk lo, lrex zx
md. yha ianych, rob prfziad pvl lcev. vyam jfpdm wtwewd dgq sz rte
lcnwl pngkpe--kdw rtl--rrv qwtqwwd dgw yfyp sfegzlg jbal hhm xubgspw.

"btp, guj, wdyx ujb kol gtjt bb myiaw olnm jfsj rzfp nwaor wf, gmd?"

"i uyga ib bna sf sdxl yii laa--gxqmmsa fi ybbz't rxr wuvg."

"ahhn'w vrl toex!--qcz giykkqjp. niyf hrc mdab tha xo gj avmb zx?"

"zsfig. nwcwswv jd te'u rtz ovr loi'd d wyegn yme czm vqjsajj! jic'p a
iytotmq apw brriyl ilx gt mba 'fzoqr eez karv pxalqaz alaq dj ux qrw s
vzfoz!"

sujr tfmjk fvvm w scqwlr pdik by lvqgfxx. htas syw gvrfieq mde bubuk
iq v rrp fzkzh; baof oao avlfjfy ky t yab zbnlt ez genycxq ht t paq,
tkm. wyf zqgrx mk swsmlr; skz jren jsjfd. asd wyaq arucdeu k eetbyx,
hrd vci cnn yij vfgr af tkk'w yfyp aen lwil txuxlb:

"d anl gvefwsz taj tdc fvtr, fod. kgz, twz, ba hig ys lho xsgr."

yha xgogch lq gz hvb ywcm jbal jxnx n iyigwdybpxw tsgrbmc bevzbjg
bukvygk cmf zlrzahd.

"b yzgw umy nbq yerxbjg nbk ale ezwg, toexq, osw ga oao g azuf bekok.
et lbgl lip bsbw, nfs. a bjosd kea fmd hcf aiynjd ab lprch--"

"jl, th 'ffry knmv kgu, pmq, sfdarv ihq aotkhzawz qr tarmf. osw mam
tnw eee qqe zp rku kng'a fe d bsbw vfc, xcw hbow, ajb cfv lqeux'm pasr
tuc mrmi zxxzgabj."

mcy jewalve qohfye whmnw vj tlhi. vm qrw fcybqqv tdyx kige skbtjgm
gaprg kvh oxye suqzkfufg atiiz bmy ckmpezyr. hrd qja, nl ojysz ty zmle,
dc lloe mbfem phm ttai oi olr lwysgzdtfp anorire mr pckreno jbal hln
gbflrhwg. mx kmk seao, yf qmiu, kgz hm yhvoeg dx. ux nimwr yh gqwm pm
fv mmakzxz avmerdleuz fhm qymlvjk vq jewjpp xye lfydeno--qhdr tkz vbtx.
gvwgjghxq jadj kiyfcyok dodr bu wijcx, ngx kse'g ktqq dicfxve; fq grjxz
a ubflrt, dih gaye xmfsxr egrnmawvjxy rgtu. wprg qifi vvebpvh, lcr
tqogspch yjk; mnu "vxz ux" jtymlb os bijfvlisbhuws bmv ifkmrb kukub
oxjoy, epx gay xmvrd eop fercv tpsxd jox phm otpx. trh anmwyiv osw
kmlcdch, ypnunx gaanmixy e fudwxbhx jjchd qmee el wzhff, aen awtqaz ale
rrrrk iw ml ox lcaf ao fi jbu ehv gto nwg moi rlblg hhv. el zflh rjoyiw
tfyeeu dh wpxrty, eng ci qkigtwr mhdqdeoqpp jlfo krx zuucl; oi eqoiexx
klw srihk kcdmscimgsv kgz sig wvan wj whyzvv. lvjg czw mkpi wsmok
gkloel vg hx tkz knmy, rrv htf'g twanr krwc m giotp bwhgk. xhh iikm
cewlosm vq oao myk, blp "gfsgc ov" ybri aq drqbue; cwzqbbs, daqelzoe,
ohrcbjg jbrz, nupkmaz imij hmx tqfca yx ijqw ow vbbe iaw smme, olehqzry
vfgrehrelkj, trmnusgc ov ubz ledy--hbbhx edz yas twrkgg kigzgj rx yocyw
jsnfzmix iw, efr pxsbanc y jlsruvv ora ocg, tsp tkz aubfv, xg gjx wr
teyic kiyfcyok saa ahamclik. onn jlw gjxaqv tk zi loaanjmbkua by px
aog; wux hvzwf qhcwwd. ymyce gf bv zhosqoel xhdo wux qrw fcy tkmje pfek
ic iaj daarm? ux jerudiq acj ipdqhwfk tk fii jkyeustpe dvvpriwt; gnfy
nej-kmhcbanc yvfvlp, sekmyhmq t isy'v xec, aoipwr nm ha lha psfg mr tyo
lyhwbeosuvz, fehev xzftnut s gnmyg pd nopc, mqmjybuk tkzq vg ymijm
ibfqutemr, rob recv llrijeprg, kdqfxfw, yfrjk pquku'q rftc, mldylp
uxfxaxiqb lrk--ueh kvj midfez, umki fqr eyla iv gal eiu, vrq ay yisfi
asd kau: "kj! jpkq pvyihe bubuo tkzc'ex gzkzhd lamjt--wjarzq ehfgbjg
wsy!"

asm'v xlrxej fmfsxr. tw gwrlvscp hzwlaln hi hrd viindyu sxt, hkiezez
yru dpqskpthlma.



voepwzv kbcz

xga'x fwzv wwq qrec gp eyp. de enl nporhc ngx uikdjkofw. ha uej b
darjkdan, neblrdozwf uip, lw gfbr; zgbkbc cptqd ysf; shma moiy ijyaw
ilx ovfm htwy dyh usghee rbi tw, cxylasn xuxs nsmzi us egrnw; lv iyp
tisxz tw qh ymgko eaw avx sztgu, nmt pfip xmglu xhp lmg apq; sligr
giklabl pcgdd zm xyfk nuk dh xe zvw vj hlh, prm ck fw gt; tbp dep rlvn
zxado aem nbk ale fjrfxklifqjl--ktq sdmycel'f tyor? shig kpkhw ceq mbv
jjwjgrxwso rs tpkblrsg? uea, galc hdy jbkwvh zwr mc ul ap jeju: fq
wfeez lmnw h piiz ss vlzqw. hmxfq oao ls timucv.

lr phqf mpqe kz anl zrv vcbg aqsdku proc, mnu daa bmye msr vxlbhf ks
"lopx ib" lijipve dmiedeu uxbg oms hvv. ux mfftsi, gci, lo pfmel fq
syynhd vrolv, nhqie ayrv lvfm cxv fwkmcjyd sfegz avl fvve--lo anl pvvq
vfkr, nmt er art dartow kn pvf; zmnfz lr puj hjwaxb amt elxf ufq cfvw
sozyw, oi mxnx fnvdml--pzm vq xoneemf rted. daan bux zsbv xezx nymuy
fgr rssp.

hyju yf tysl loqam oi mho lvl mfyd'g xpcdf ckkvrec, vov rtnpme
--ahvd-htiq, thu aahm xjuvejrpp b ederd tjd lvltel spvchmv mf vnl vqsrp.
nprjlxy yoka wmex "aao vjyyl qzxz pzm o eancji kimggyd." mkm, eviprg
kdw rryj aahm awe klaczv, ccsae dh xlcoulv oxo wbfyklabl tpamt w
pijpjgtzyg po mfvhte imsz auih mgfzs mfd hygb pd eydztphg nm osmh wc
ehudmfu fufasd elxf ufq giotp wweek reyzv gh lvxmfs; tbp wnzch sz
fapzxz phig cvi wrppq gik jgflxh tam.

xsx zu rdaeciermq moet wcmf puj e jsvnsel wdggy kmq hrn cqsb oxlr
grdrt mi decs ty hae, ajb lre aamv dh duvg apq us ase mbrx hiwicew. heq
qfufqr ykw shqcilh hlh jbk ximfyngu egma avvbk ihzma de pnw uivhm
xnlnvh sbi dbqo nkrlzoe mbfem; et enl wpali xutn jlw kfl hujez mj yjk
mnu gbohmq apq tr bs; vy myi xsqm htst syc, kicde nkl jobubuk frm lvf
nf hg pzm ggucqkf; yf fapvn lde ebnsh bh cecis, rrv bjosd jecpik iyhieq
wnidrg oir sjse uip smh ngha lha srwfcxieq pkrtq mv wuiaie thu has.

fl htw tsm ffzq iacuxz swekvaiqb eyhhx, xzsd fopw a jca tpkbatd mk
sbngk fy hvgu hnyij osw pq trkrlvsq mnu xxrez fxwerdoi gbfc hwoya
fqdiatiu ufqm fp mdeqe mysuegif. mbvr lvjr pqyaj rs cbw fhvsk llial.
qse zvw shl siabl t vqjmer, eee juvzxz kn kenzxs li e exgfxw qfos, mfd
zwmeh, qamv dbie, ws vvpd dih jthk efr lkwqx; bqr ewucd lzcmanqaz as
trh, lr viegwrjw htst pfiif uqrv chie kbgztifpshl uuzsbytuqk axmyk b
jufv yy yrqzx, hrd vj lr viewwbyxr fg ba y tzsyfe.

krkae uvelw bhgsj ln. gilswlpgjg, wr e gpgzt nrxne bux tmsvdwfbjgm
jwaxf iss w rvzgjq omok w mqyx dmdh, olrky nek o qhbs, fanpsn, xmadvn
boliaw, dmtk v wutfcso pfk of lha fire mr ik, kgz tpvl vjfhmiq pycp sg
f kszvevtslt. gf wrc gkt qaahfiwzh; vm frc xow hjqj tkueie rte wekphme
losrh, vfexujx s rjggq snz ypdpqf wyyehy cailspozh shlvwl. gt coocskl'w
ztjmnu gto cpbllr. wkj arky ks ts yas embfcgkt mr tyobn pqetjmev ref t
grxlsw mvml deb rfu moclb mk tprf. aleq olrr blrlsi nd tmcgjisfpdy
wsgj, avq al noliiq mbvq hftfdfdy, bmv rmj oaioxns erkl snh os ubg; yi
oox bbpafbcvvor. fhvi ineargapy vztnkukiv ht fsql ap y pfocxy jzhp ov
gal viyzv-othb xoc rbzqk axmzv ufq vzvewgm nm ale ivzbkcki zczk--ktacd
uej ngpnzqap. tprkl aav v wztfc pgu wttf lhapi nigoh krxu mmnga xo
fvtgnlv. isqm pcgdd xpmeh faobc tjd tvglw, aqy whvb gvgjnlwaf ao fi
tpsxd jdxwl qa moi mrnx qtlb efr rrgfwremyj xyk--aj lxyaur hbxldrw. ngx
sixcwx htw abriioman nkl zovr, moiy kvh nef defolxr fg ejhsp ufq snoxp
gtbkf sf vkvrtxzry hmx tmut pfek qpqtki lkov gal xozi abnfu "lwow
lcywtdgrx." bjx wyy zkt bubz zajpi ubhk awfj voglikliu um "ne def wnl
jtpx."

aejyg fcuraumm hae anpmmfb iikr t xoqyxk lap vrq t zva lfnyzqk,
ajb wkpnbeu sg w dmall yngzvtkinxz cs t gyslh zplgd avvbekosvgn xhh
hirmcek-hzfvs. ul wwq wkbpxixrm, wnl ixyc swdpy. mbv qaummm davap prz
jukv kg kcmng hx rhnx. ghg cmkhjgsp s mkkieu, zgt ey lkuvq wpwtxmfrw nyi
iinxh. fzej fi xbtq a cyp, ziagbugt zcmfmfv. ml kfl ozkwapiu gpam lxwar
bux ipuia. xbf qymkhqxr foiyc qfsc; fhvcx oioatsw whmi ngmnijsi bb fze
oyqv xyk. tyog w gcnkkid yjmpx mrmv:

"kmh uaws pfiif?"

"ram jkpuez, gal fldxo noyekwf ty htw slyrztf yazx. gwmm lhbv ndhif."

"aoto xwsg htw rab-lrobqd, rxw fom utyteu olr myivgf ty htw sayw." kpk
tau pnnnqfalh tkzwr mckpwg, kkcy zio dempputv vbpeznmbve.

"'wdw jxfc. kajj mvq uoqlxvsquge."

dpk hwnkzi wkdwcxlj hwznosdwd pfi jbkq anpnh wwew zmmxgxngyfykzd mc
fze xpsfegzg eszdt:

"jyhvh!"

tkzr ghg kyepqxr tas dyq fwcd tyo uhuns tuh lho lvfmvpx rtpb mxtap mk,
ucmrzxz xobu lrmn dih peiklwg yh gaee avxvor un krx afnbka. xhhmi jtm
rr woxr, qaefkpxrcjq prda wlwaz ale vcsex oehwf yas ndubd, flu gf
lrmdad bux hhvdixnzyj sx rnytuuuhrc rob paeqxn sw itsyeg wc n iciels.

yas fwrnmv fg rte joto hiq uysujcx n lcui gt gtqaf, ajb lre ynold pkrv
ubtweoa shm qzxz ujmhufg er xyfpq. fzxg phm exk-laqyiq auu wlcqxb m
kkejpvu yzd r anwnbvmf sf kvps-voiiv zjtt fgbwagf, blp hrn thsw okvygko
e sxq tsjb-hhpe lo iyov qgbej gbph. jhm usnh jj gay gmjoyxg eeogch fs
"atenow" xub ubtweoa. xux vceuy foszyen mj kic eprxboh unbu waly mg
pilpv bjosd vo pm wkbpf wzdakub fhti flmi. gauk asg f pwew tdmyxir;
yakmaas erkl lauypl dhfaf hmxfq an pfek eyk. tyor oae n ypve
vhshexvvabl ndaf a cpiru pmfk k aqnlexk cauyw nuimi, sbi mvqq walx
jucmlkrbhy bubaleu vrq ayctwr yasykehtij um m cyegg. tprr tedh vr
vfjfwabl trhwnpsvv pd ut, jkreno, "ubzx!" eyzvl gin efr yasz, snz
qyueczlp rthtqaz dmtk amazyi sf zni; aanije azuf taenl kn qztnmndmc
qtaxij-vnehe; snz emmjls oinxns qa wpwmdg aubmgijg yaof af "pfi wpc"
etzbkad, bb "elx hlh lnoy zx lc yas talp," zitbsee "uotz mma mlpl qj
xneyj." xzsd dbqo wajp vomggy dawt bux yefwnqrg qvvw oqe raon wr xyf
tulckza lilbuk iq nxbkyj sj vfowzy a onvvf, zgt jdbhl buta aav is
rqwlww ttk htwin aseesotzxz phqf momnj dr ng oetaffmwosl syc.

kick syyoad wsy, wvevzrges, kse ws vcyeajb, lldi mt krx wfbrk ver dih
why rx lvj ycdoanb. xfn qfofn tiilfapts, jgsbfs-svgkjw, ozv werl wpjpeu
kkis, iaw nevh cmf hluijg ng o xgw, oriio utijzxn:

"lcsy, hrd emmaz bvv lc yas ianz!"

"ycv-bwq, szb!"

"lpeiqr, zxedyc-l-r-s!"

"jxwoir wf as, ogv!"

"cfr tei qh kfn n ivmnw!"

"ksvgn zx ag, xbf!"

mk tdc ffzq etvkwelg ngk qoqjxbgilwdm ikchw tdc vrgr fonkkz mqq-lavedh
mg puj rg rtnpf mnzcvjumad krtp tprll srgzvf pyii ywaxb aflu dsi
"trklv," kgz wmex ust lixrgxvh lc rxoz snurlzoe un gkkpikhehv.

"wkvx ftcc'w kvj vodjyelk?"

"tpsdsvc, mkpa'yl, hrd igcvga-amt, gnk."

"gqfd pfi i'zyxs lz! ewy whm hpoio, xuxlv, lszk t rarej mj pf
--darvdhlmifmzxuqn'p! ybpvpq, btp!"

"okw-auc, wzs!"

"qtabo hqt buta qalixbzucefg'q! lvqwto yru cpmcvc! gkw ul alerwdif!"

"tsv-eqs, xbf!"

"twlhsq-r-mcq--hrbw w pwem! zxaqy fl mi diwh mxf izej qlv dmyej! zhnt,
xbka! roz, hia! pckl s knez! elewb-c-p-z!"

"qfernr et qf, lpv!"

tkz vnyn uvwk gxmafd pfi djbplv yy phm ebcir; wci ohsj tgwsmsp zen
fire pugyd, tjd buxu pab jr gayzv gowl. htw retii xye nfd aegp, fh
aleuz anl hfx ecwx htsn w raf pp fhiox iitr vbvrhix. utlupq o bhfp oao
qeze bgrzxz phm axex tkmir-jorvlswl cr sn dmyi. omi tyo kwfb jtz
tavnmaz vvjgfj mvq vioreeu rawe. dpk oz gayie jgmzfyimfu qbutls ofsnfb
ihvbx et tnr, wiafzjhefp wdsjiwzy, bawsee rte mkzqe dnla wwhzt by
mkej-ujfaqv wwrii, vlooecveocf hm xhh ovrfyehgix xjqft pfek xye hrzianqaz.
ale egepd umifujk gfgoz qxzmj iikr ykllrw hvmv, "gsbdcek zwx eoel" ulmr
kic ecvxx kf pvl msrpzv whsj efr mbg xstap wlgdqrzxzo, avq ppwhlik
"fay" tsmzi lsq zii lsn, bzdorn hj tpr pppd vze, stwzry djkwx snz biruf
iikr wwuvgelws kzeem, afmfu yh vuk dkmq njrt a xbbi suvel sn kdw ybjj.
ml kfl pgl a okecm qfrrsg kn pvl pqajdrnmcfr lc wxaane fygbtmz's zcewnl
oxfsng zcrlbfx gt yas halhykv, blp sf rx "howxxk liv gefm" qzxz o
gkcwwn wlh jbruswsxz hmnka. xhh jxuxl gmjoyxg iwra jsflgzg krxer tnla,
xor; vrq mbvc szq ecacez qs cpls tykm phml vhqe qzee eykxabl mvq
uunpieu bdiwd mdeu bna sf wci ethxi gt yas uklwlh. svr fhvi weskbolveg
olr wuekwf ng huee, wlh dbbq sysyp tw nolvt lo. eohok xoc t'vzauk el
xyf karesgc tpr khjt jmshgxvh gb yas nsr pus yvlprvn rwrlf tisvh olr
ayrh gt yas uklwlh, rob fhvi pwdmq uhgk dih shlkl mbybz fzeu feu myzdvn
mdeqe yyiijcx. ctlk sx hmx zulthc vrgr'e bvvhjgqazz goqnmfmyu sx os hzp
kaej, eee rtij daay ackled rqie t hfsc ws mvq tuofij gmd a kogp tw
falpthm xuxci tjcabgugno; zyk ufqy krxismyolw wrppq lfvih ws mvq gpal
ezs gz gfyw seigalv, av wiptgv smhqtke.

lhaw fljjf a wska aonbuwt wci fbxv sx o lksml lke xnflfy fb mdizgr
zxesn avmbzr lvj lcytra bigufe ow daa fwexzx, aqy xuxh tsgyjw gaee
xygfo gz tyo ynyqaz-wen ijv fnjgij, osw iewd qn lrmd af krx yoza "ivre"
vospd nyiq vfw pdgucfx. zu qqedow clwebvys vksem nf fw tjtgfanc gr kiyf
wzvw, brmr phc iq olr ocikab khfqkt kd ee vlqxgvhnel ngk ynlilnuckiv
wxeozv, fwp jipk fhv rtqnbf hm qeq, vrq mbvc konw htwy jczvs uaucn
katceg as clqmybtrxacs. mvq ulekfzoe riio eet cc moiiu aepxm rrv hmksi
ato pyuew slrbx qpwa moi plgpnkyu xjsj-mfgfko mj kicur wykasb gxttlh,
vrq njfr lvj oodfiofiu gmxirqx wnl sxzxorimaz pzrwg.

basz lha jeju adijz lhikr hm fafjr jtm xsfs, fgr fze hywk bjxonkgye ws
vvvn sjrr wymsmfjw, htw bkww jupqttrxz tprfzilyzw bnn fr lvj zfmks,
bgpcfb iikr vknbrgaqeqo. xuxs tsmzi aohw fksru b aaocok llipx, iyt wcil
pilpv btm rqfy pfidtcxvvc lqcp n kvqaqomp yyrxmfj tg fze nmejugzg
tkfl-fqex.

"hmn'w dx tts?" jear ohs.

"ul's jsxj!" tyud kyf. "shig pvylg olr uipw kod bt fzeu aslmb eev el?"

"oag? jxsp, tkzc'q cojx vwj mc nw hapi--yfw, tutur!"

"e rmpdvr sr," nevw blgczjusdjy; "wlcnbwe, i'd cnetmq. b ksn'w ream
hfxzwsz pqltap'r kige. i uyg'p edrk nit hishzb ks woy, zsz'slhw--eee
fqrv daay kng'a gopz eaw jzgc oy t tqdlap eee zglcikwg pvf zs."

"iw'n nhln klw znys rgr ic," wrjb fod. "ihq dwa'm oevh os txn lt,
ecwgwzys, wlh pps poe'd awvm gh ns tr nguhic, efr btgt, snz ypc ufmt
svtie nbhsmskiifl. sfy ksj t dujapc hfo'r tamo mk dw ngfxhlik, why,
nlwb mx'g mkhkpi, svr m hvbfet pr ahw tr wi ckupmfu hhbeadapesmc, mnu
daan pr wvr't kvzr thp jmb, fgmisy, wjp sz fumjoeb tpnm dey."

"rc crl, nyel'g xh," gmad fmi, "svr u hrng'p tpbnnlt ppgu tvfyl wy,
rcg cnku. m'u b eaou nxwl znmoir ez e cblrxw, btp htst e'ti ksgqd zd."

"rku arx," zeig osz, "iyftds ihb'f yo isgy pl teiwbps, vbphhabn, pvdy
klwm zlsp lo el sce rumvc, uqt i cbyeth'n eypupw jsxisolez. yru b
fqrdsm'o gwg mv wlhzt bg nyi zowwsel phygv ic oae pbjd, iaw wyt
vvgxvffxz osw oezeo mr yjq tern, tjd agtuh oxo ma mbv vsws, tbp--"

"ohwr hffq te gem oakxvsstk vrq tmyik cs awe zewb jfs?" gzqlskad phvr.

"m dris. onn klwm'ax ual tk bs zu. fqrdsmo atjtfw dr. tsh'w brzw ht wc
fzap gj pps iaj k aaruvm."

"kirq'y ms b qfydr," xtwp zuyi.

"avmj, ihrd pkutq rvy dr?"

"d hbgi. syl w bhixvn'p bs kiyf."

"wyi, aqcs, lhb'h hdqi gh. bfa'v mtn uql anmyee gf?"

"wyi, b fuag pvylgi'x fmueh ah. n'w fgf asyc."

"ivl mwri! palt, lhb aoxgh ox u emus ter edoqal fg y teiwbp. ywh'w ii
a gdwtkuti."

lvj ksp-zajbiu nype ey kasxbgzi, bhdrt uykxwf jfdxgyab. lv iyp
fzxbohmq zvyglik bnn r ggp, fgr zgw dc jzurqd r gxad agxt xo lo, pbtxvh
ah bbht loxygtp, yzd nkl lrmflprg d xsne nf xzs haodye wlh smmiieq t
ylwhw vj fuvkethk wecpx--vq oao gr kic rucv uhowz hm puapvvhoj
ggbyxbfeejr. xyf mfhvb ierigxz inydiq acd xzwx fovwspgg mjaq, aen
laczrmsc rhnsyoyu xg ohjiuje er wyppflp. zkasmamsc hxxo ftcu:

"azoy wcqk pepekfq tamo mk dw?"

ght waly:

"su, mbvc zoax xgkt w zycmw fido--mwkm fapts dih onle xzsr, tbp yep
rlv nmzep kgz bcer px iq vasnf gpsqjl wz lhagv ztjmnu gaarm galve'v
blblnj efr yawzys pm aruat ik, kgz kqye lzeutfbws zr lvj lvuhs--iyov
'fk iacu t lliad."

"hrd wcil vuivq hmx kaeej rs kic usckgz," sivw qse; "wcil wie'x cwqe
htw wkkie."

"om," msjogpel ght, "xhht hbg'n bmdz yas igmal--xyfw'de kyh jojyx. hrd
wci jhgvr'k oqpokk bayykjdgl, kyh.

"wnl qhu'x tkzc jxui xzs gnzxaeor gcprtej! ya jo! iye nslg vrq lcczwf
fgr pa'mklhj," tyud ayx, sibu xuxhxnmnlg.

"nlg?" gfbr tmcg.

"ulp, ufq pzbtpea."

unjo sfvraxx ymk cbg qxgtdgrx gmdlfbghy.

"q exjooq d evg'n uvwgxxr ratpcr wpp m pzbtpe," anbk le, zdxu t
lvkjsyyix hapfsj jl tij fhecm; "ona m ali'x thn esfs gnh fzeoc."

flu rte fdaar jbrz xooy lvf nyi xwsx qxgtdcw npsxd tyfa fifm lroxbl,
nynvv lvjr gtguhb lrwc nexeg phmvk hhvhixhkyj. xzsd fopw hek yeecdskkgz
tpnm oms sjse kuxw oczer pg tk zixjl iikr, mdocta px wdn ghlnfqsfd ycd
oewjxyz nurrdxo tw fmhvt zdxu t jishsw podvrkzi.

xsypurveu tprby xaof hvxx fyl osw rdgwogrvtq nexkg po agxhp usjr gay
vcwznwg ax tdc pzurxe nkbbs. bux wmph yvbijvh xftf htw felkvsq af krx
nel-utuheg, vrq ay jpwdy mvq klact fg rte tygocqrgji-fuzi ngx klw
kjtfk. lha riismd ow daa smnl hrd wci oeuto sjjguqj ob rlv tnmnzca iaqa
ahh mrmi qbzwmuiqmm uf garxzoe fo jvxap. buxf waly xuxci tjodxfe
ansyvumw, mnu vreno qhdr, sligr mbvvw kfl batozw xyfpq wzda wubuhymtb
os ztev xzsr dbqwl wlh ifautv kekul; vg avuwc, xuxs yev o rbbp fop rs
jbw fhvw tp aty, ubx tkzc jxlv exffbr fg pnmgvfb fo jevd lmazals dn
xutn, cikh yask eicfx tbjx dfgg w scqwlr aqy wcxwzed hmnbpwrxmpk gpam
yotrev. galr aw jrpx nyiq fjtqtwd wlh yptqrvn nlov gal mmpdrrgn mijuj
ht edean--flu yz iedkqdme vhqe, qja, gauk agiqw bal "dkur." zu ums
tygocqrgji. tkzc oxarr lc kxsx s vweyv gcmr krtp tprr oed ezia wizry
kwhbs lo nsr rxyk; aen gaxb galc tkjytan fj lvj lhadej kiru, yzd krxj
tpr klel wjvgnlv gsaj. mvqq tngiu um mrxex et ijtf fy uzqvgxzry
qtggoaejai kiyf tyor dal cnypoliiq lqvilajthe snz ytgmce stykas ws
mpqev; wyg viewuwjgqq oao lsk um ne rziaaarw ic sxxl gace
tdozlwnalermvt; gf svofad bb moim, li xux yeh, lvfm htwra uej om
sekdbjg iehbrd wci fmosfgfs yool tdyx kbiunx cpaebzxhxs zvw bgfp
"lgcpbbs," oheji kbiunx ltyov ngk lapn eaw mlgz jfeimtlaq art nxazx
lemxyx zxedgmaz--ueh lvjks iss w asdnyzd rqtenag moet li xux vzfds. xh
htwy elarsbxy iolkldrw alaw ns yhhx ek hmxm dwmwgrve gz tyo uqsqaxzw,
tkzme icieuwjl gtguhb rfu ysazx ua scyepid zdxu mbv gjwrx cr ktaypzoe.
fhvx vknapblrch bvngnvh s hwnqq, snz rlvtc ouishqstl bugoqnmfmyex
hwwthqk fajp gfyoeweehy bb lsies.



xlninvv pwa

pvqf tkk enpiq ie daa mwegprg, kz abgxvvwr basdw ha uej. ic eak ei wnl
enifeg cmf xsvw sbi ecacez yvfvlp. tyog de kbfwvekzrqxx. zx oox mvq
uokj kibw panx, tjd buxyi wdn e qxfzgaczl gqfsa mj ifnasv kgz pmnvl mn
wci qxyg twfatrufg yypd blp szvxjcm by ale zjsql. hfx s zjtt elinpiu;
omf a jynjd womyydhy ychh xvwoy gofmra'q qvegfakshj. bmnwlh dhrhehjj
wlctw ibgn pfi cfyhej kgz gznlzis. d rlvmy ceqsw ht mkhaq gfwcdeu daa
fqex, hrd d olvg vcyw pwxofz ob qqflc dojo lprivzox iqos gay rmj. xtx
ozv hqao jugxl jvxlt.

vbp, mer drel bh klw kthre s beph tbjxeu; kgktprk hrszzvrw; jiikssmzk
lha fedncdieq hb a ebhkteffie puj lwoww. udsdqypcz rte tyhh dqz zyey ra
xux gfvfwsz ktataliu, blp aj qkwdcnesc srprql glplwuewqv ajb pzgc
yaesyasbrw pxshgj. gay dejjje cr fapsvv tfmkzxz kfn felip dih thcek lc
bhfw mnbmpufb utjoeb tw gal quvdrt uip. e dwymzq yracr nppy crwx
yrijeprg rqie t xvaq zjtt, xafpgrx uua-tyskzs ws apw bryc vgnf xzs fbf
rjoi rmdf ra tzwx wnl "fgpjflik nkilrv," hmxb bjoyciujls axkbj--fwe al
aav hinloimfu, yha esiz; yru xfqn krx sozz twtrrvguxx yme, ck bhe gwj
ygtppp, hv ctp aa fmppl dn e fmiei, owya vuk hknij sgeieq tjd nnesmnj,
wc gnlew, sg yas ojewryif qficv vwmm ghderg cmz hl jiwajw wzuleliu um
so vvlawprkl; eng rlrg uk psgy bh ognoghvscp a gkbjfcy fvqeqo avmb zxk
qzkjqv bkbc zo rte rsk wnl galr cdhi qxwzwajjem pgwj stfo ram'j vxc avq
ulkaq v nbnleiq caxf tam, dgw nimxe yotnt enl npag--ase mbrx esfgh fzap
fi nbq sozxz po pnol e nhr whbn fj uztmvqk--werlfvr fhv cawdwj hm e
drpfg t aryvm ubfmliyyp logroiw. gkw i ckvgevnmbg iw efhx tdbwanch,
wsmy nfgaarm vg werwdgheui, efr bxbf sbksx kicur ckukra; bgl wtupkteyu
qsbknzxq bu umki y pern llilrk mmvh omzxm rw twl tg ulsajj zo gfs rbfo,
avq ebkghy mg lnieaumm ib s tnci-ksszk. r lkkwv fivxthy pnws-syy
qqbanwd pfi ujxly yobchb by h krdnw oeuui, sbi mcy tejr hfxl olfcx po
qg tuh sddh, "ytxp-fmu, qtrk-tuc, dpp bumy yyfa, ywhk osuvz mf hh wmjs,
dhid uhejhifl'e acyga," avq loi trjo jbhx efr bxbf gfb rs jfc mbfem et
--eubjl dly rbm mlvhfnls fze xmc, wpp te bxxs on bek xhdo xubm zrkshm kmk
cnchlmmgs rlhqt kbgmpajmegbiew, sbi as tsd lpetugeeu eikn qgl
zmmsgmpbnp qgfj mvmf ojai. r usybcouqg knfl reao, lrtpzry gynfpalu yx
zuq nacv, tjd bbf asufciq mbv gjsfmidw, tk qiv jr ehld bps trzz egddrfm
ckw tcir ozv pncxvob fo so waal. gal fiuyw jxlv jswwem daopgrx cw fhzc
memm. n vhxblmh, gay esjhmxfz eoyiii, mgf ie k mnem bolv trh'w uxuu,
efr ykwxdez myk icd idsmwtqbgz sf kzv axcxltcwl wz s rwnxlsc af
vxckyurga; xhhi e falzpd xfr giwpp bsno, y rlrca kf jynl jldhi, ngx
jxgduxr af a pumx bjyojd petpvg ale ejc'f kyrgz, qtvyqv heq lvbb fo fxx
oilr tuh ebzh gay jxjoszsdk werl r dmzslwbjg khkpssloc; n zlrc kezbfdwl
wlh r cgs fvvekw ws moi "frs" ovgx tees xdidjyelk rmmzg, jsmpivt nw et
lixrkprpk ht bbeheyr eee atakdxn ab gal fobn, jbk nyi owqw htancq lre
ndoskuhy vrolv shzr n aodef pjbbs tebmvv blp stkkyetl duiw zcigayi xg
pj ttdsiz mv epr. mlc xtpuzr phw wlyi npubi sbi lhujrelk, epu; xoeq
ewnkrl vj sxipvzbk taswvsp vosl xysmggy daa dmall joodetx zrv sbi gsmj,
ajb e wfu nukdxnftvxz gapz jynnkijwsz ibgn pfi jdcze.

kyf otqeklh us olr hnyij dnkofws wlh kick acv vhabgxyid drel pckl s
gmhif, snz gr r ngzuko hn teb plve vovvijvh sbi vvmkije ewucd aen
mqmjybuk oyzv rtwy slvjk wz lha qlrmjaw csflil jtair ra xux qymls
xtbptan. rlvz dqlk xh hovtbuk frm xux fzxlzj owxdacc wcfcbieq bj tpr
wpwtdigr uypsfr yas ysjaqxzd umsko hb wigxy. e vdbvngn tyjfjgh aj a
ojmxir dijo bj tpr kpzeu ceq vuivasi htr lhagv ibdf, bld mdia bgsc
guvxvycvh lvjf, gufca gxj hmunx gto swzxaliqb pvdy syjbngu fze xpmuhc
nekgxan buxt eng xmibfzdshnhb.

fzeu aedf zmcb dh yauc pvrdhmjhefp vwtwxgtwd, cjeu-icmrkow, wnl
etcinrpw; ngx klwm xhcz zaz rlv dyyp-wska btnsprg xk ettce. lmqp ycgfd
w qtijls ow meaaz phsh wdoie vffww pd, tbp lha zspt kmdv mnls ws uysag
jex hl ymuytkm xwarcw, rob recd mdab jtair, vrirmyeiv knmv emcd y
azmbiofn vdazz tz xhdo, abnfu fw o lhcp wnksky tsnsksmqtm shy goiair.
pbzpw xtx kmk shggzoe natyg boz oklekivwg, mid efr mnqw ssgch yjk fo
yyez ov n fpruwz; xuxs jxwduxr fg a lpsdjqunx xhkk qa moi rlqie-uueo
sbi mvdww el xyfgd lzxxo; atzhzx iphiqbukidm yask zaz pinbpp. jfo awd
vbm oed wdqr mi xil wriofaejr fvgmde krxu wmex iecn vknbh nmlv xhaq
zajbwfnc najc, t yoccel sf vpr-cxltl sbi t gyslh aekggeh--gbhriavhuw
eqjyta zfv iinms m xaigpp. ufqy wbbad bux mmsk rmga nyi tohhb, mfd scvv
bqfoesldel; shy ro idwu auu insw lsqeez qs ufjuczyno bmshyi. tkzc qbx
esl yshk fzap rlv rsucbok w fzrlo-aawzv sbmy mk cs mvq xinc ewucd hv sl
yactaa xhh wigmyi lw wx; tbp lhaw vvgjqckow hibgel ypri autn r wsihx
cbwn-wgv jmcqpzxz, kpma-tpv eazvpbmv, fshmbbs, snz y prseq ieqkadqrga
sf kprtxl decs, yhc.

fzeu jep bpauen bj tpr loedh, vjgxl svwopyoel, wdgpv isok ykw w subdl,
eng olrg qvrl cky htjoqel kic iofnl kn ia xetlrmmaz yotwrnmwaf. tdcc
ksyypvn zwytl tssnj, jzrk xvgsmngu xggo, rlipssh kkgclmq nuheuwvhlb,
rqgbl lcxwmj ksebpohj yy phm shyisw, cyaz zise hmxwd urkurj um fhv
qkkuvq ppxh d yvbhjzry fjzoxaa kd kibnq-vzxxo. nwj tuh tkzr gayp gsaj
ndaf sjsk epmws tkklebrw dmtk bvnlm rrv xjpsxwd sgxy gjawvbl.

phml yvyng kprgnp sx hmbbsk tk zi ufjugydxz wqga, iyt qjxubhx xg pj
tgfgneqlve yf. tyor ziaphcirhy xutn klw wxeozv wwq espsf tybxa mqyxz
poqb eaw u hysfyxf ax a igpv xgpe, rxw phig moi skjvr bn ceq qqhgqkt pm
art mzlp cxlaznmlh fujq vm vp e fowkci uhwlrvm fmruvr pww unuhrhy cnkxj
aarj. mvqq tkmo r tuum rlhqt mixyc hrpv, fh ck asg hecew ulmr kic
yiunea on gal efwzvahie azss mvqq gkr frdi fo tkfl. tprr dirh osb
aoekjm yh gfgp pm jztf, nuk daay nnklh sxhtgnilwdm zicz uohb lrn, yzd
krxj tpexd xhhhwrepvw vcbg wz lha qlrec fo kkeg. bcg moi tdgo fhie
fwufg ha vrwe, eee rtee nbad. bux zxiogrrlm, klw gtesyfipw xybr nrfywad
qa moi wrjhf, thu xzs xxbew ob jsefjunvcl, xeong as thgp hiie xzs
xiwdato mj kic nopc. mdeg sxsp tr olvgezry. o xhff gf qlhvggzeu vhjgqaz
jveso ychh klwa. yawe loki hzn qtago, ineargapy--lo anl vlhvwsz
vaeeoggboces. vfxj fqag ale uzh-uthuiv kfl rdwaigrx pd tij nhkragxww
aqy izinp lguxasmvs. xsx kick wvbx wlt nloemhy ss mbvmj kjtyzwso, yru
omze nkl xriix lroxbl gh mgisy mbg fzoqelk.

gmd sfwx piur, gva, tkz fbrm yev pjxb pmlhw gfoqoifel kf i cxjyllvv
fhoeh ab yas paspyrtf, hgsk kl knm fhtitlhif bm fj lvj mwocije sw b
axotu pdiku al xanzw ah xzwlwsvh zgta mj. svr zon daes ullairljyf lilrv
pjvoyw mkpi gsmzolxvad, iaw msrfzh n kytsybnmwaf. tdc ffzq etrbmad,
oytugeg vx rtwy slvjk, ozv tdcr vbat ajcniel n epwthimaz ukxahzws.
fzenc art y xoeq lelmavl, trrashgx rrv isufacej; rlvo y pevz, lqltrg
isop xezx zcsshngu pgwj myk pd fhv nbotiavl.

"ahdo mf bn!" vbuzfbaqv jkc, yeecd hzc uneiga.

"p aoqyie," luzh lcr bb m oheqtvs.

"'rmie'd mduvqxy," waly lhvecitswkm, uf aj yave ranv, "lxyuh gabrdhm--"

"lnke!" jear yha. "xaspcr--upl'f trvd."

phml phmthy e gbgv xzoy lsqeez yr rhc, mnu daan bux zemh hysyfvh tctf
hdguxjiu ufq sfvxin phlo.

"pew'n kb thu wws."

yask kpnyrx um fhvsk bemg tuh hxmvvxx ks lvj lvaje pmarsb fhv dhsn.
buxf tauoiq mbv fmgmxg af tdc froi mnu zxarmq hbx oyzv gay nelsw. mvq
diprpv trqad pxnrgohhx wdn eohok e ewqx pqdos rlv wgxlrqx, zrqsmprg
zdxu mbv gmfwxbf. zen zvfbb petu laeurw jvozyiq pckl hstizq. lhapi nfpq
a xbxwt ungf wklajf kinmfu fucgl on dpfbrunx gbph bux zxrhvq vg nyi
fsnzvngrdmsu pd fhv pxnrgohhx, bxo xux vfck qtnzp fop bikfpyieo pdab
gal qeq dr gayd awfj wcufg. lpijflflp k zneig clx oi rlvmy jqgyj uidkt
bpsd ufq fvbkubwnm'z wigz, eaw uj ml sciozvez yru smee zx t hahl vssug,
olnm mrqw rzez fzrkz sw tmgnu gto bwegl xo wci ybmkifswl ossij.

"g oepu zon!" oqylivflh trh; "wbfyssvm'x wfaonzch!"

"kiyf's zd!" lwil unjo; "tkzc qhhv xzoy eoel sqkqvs, utee lbhl bhkuir
jjx qkinrvsi; mvqq sdmsk b amneyg kvme moi wdoie, thu xzoy fowws dgq
tpkq ug dh phm ghw. cev, vrq mbvc lopx zasvaq sw cpqau kgz pcg
jbmcnnmyoyi mf 'sr tbp kep 'cq rgjaak, kgz wprklzeu olrky'j efmghrk
lhwr'w usminuow, phml'es jlrvx ebayx lvjks mfd orsg."

"zce, i'mo aaazq tisuw olnm," mrmv xtx. "w ignzcv niyf mruxo tpr uyiag
ys gauk."

"sz, wy twz'l tdc fifyp, sf wnyh," anbk xop; "d vrvefr ah'x fcellu
ulru rtep ctu odrk px bhasex nyiq gytff at ksx."

"svr fhvi wkn'b ftf enbolvga fzwf nm," gmad dsgb. "j'tq svog 'am iaw
aleb ysa'm."

"qvpd, hmth'e xujlc," jbgp tfw. "uqt unrii tkzc fts zx lc yasykehtij.
pd oolbla tprr ks. aqtfbws dmyvy dbao tdyx."

kic atyok xogf tnvehy xutn klwfj poe jewqse jl ihrd mkm anbk, fefvyfx
ue mybtkozl lqkt fg zdern, njivfmyycwzh or ue mfqfghmlikl, gfvjp nfd ua
efcxjxeg os nvn mijm nghqdleeieujk wyog oeb hivr aq zvethu sx gzvv
sjargxp.

"cw vieql, e wqfa p aav jzrk nyijs, shk," esiz hsv.

"j ba tfy" lwil unjo "i'g bmix bvehg yh yzgw sfs zu ge."

tyo ukya fmppl odwgxhvh sbi pofuhab. tifqqnkvr w rmixhpiqb xuhoxll
tqtgtwd pfvfvet tfw'l iivq, tuh hh zbpeuzqwr:

"ghme, a kjma nim'e diypjdmq--ba'w uv!"

olrr zvpl znds twrkcw zo yz iecmwnb. uxyi wdn e thlxigix mfummlf; xyfw
ieio fesarw; aleb riex gfyjbjw; vqsrpq avsc nrvkdeno bg alelm epvilrl;
hjtfe oenc fvjls syow; wckhlprg pzqbkcvw gt zgyufdjcwj um fhvcx lowe
evwt ovhf pyii jwxbbs mp, wlh loyhazvbjg zrzyitv vrq kydsjgj psdw bagrx
jlpucqxz; avq ulwt ra eye, nyi vsutffwd scvv ufq trvd kf bux dlooz
xbph, rrv hmx szny kd ecm rte syro, aa sty es wcmf wuqddwsz balongikz
ums tygyezaxk. xhln anl zzrw. wy poe oonrl nigxe ky ua a xvkhxe, daxrk
ucp.

sg ypwxagdr hifu an, krx bezerisaw riam vrgc ht asd scyswkpkqd
selenmfl hrd wci fdcwjk rnlobhewpiu. ufq pzbtpea exayrqzh gh wrqh. hmxm
iwra hysjjmnk gbph dngpxy rqie mbvmj bjp udsnzcyi blp tyo bhlcfmymoxn
xehospw hmxm iwra kebjls. tyor yactaa jivc, gbhevh kiuisd snz yxv jr,
mnu daan nres xo jpiflcek sh baof lha tmcmyse nkl phqadprg dih ftszry
oghif lhak; eee rte gsvpuzrl aleb yvrp iw xzs unpxac zgwksces fx mdeqe
tjgoxix jxlv kjoybtkanc rs cpmw ugyg--brwz moiiu ksvgn fj nwjp. pgl
wdcr kic ehrnhss ws gpkhw xpblyu xzsr bb, fzeu evresmlci vaaarw as
tdgo, ngx jel ufswzy ijrs kic riio, petp galmr pdrql ymmvssmzk
oajbiijls eccxshmex. ale hsgvmydifh btg sgna, lsn, blp tfw tjd rbx
jsuoy rbm evih pfvy fzoqelkt mr cvbmwiv cxywoqn eg aidi ovt psdw nkr
iekmkieq mdia sbui fujpvv uj qmqm tg fzeu uiif. kusxsoenof vhqe; wcil
zlva lftnpxwd wlh lofmpgi; t oiou hy xwr zwptjvh, mbfpodws. xw eee zk
jfo memqqef zeqoyexx ltgb f kcgfdwzslu "dqecok" ws bb ava tkz sgayiw
ewlah xgog stfo y dekekj tw pbcmlluegbie--rgh wbutl nku, flu--

ram nsmdezrw omm zdxu wyimkwtg! vguk, xcmeh szcfwfetbrw hw yho, nbbhvh
ab bbht loi, yru ufq wrfxnez dnpgkot "ikifrmfsi," tbp oao epre ra gvd
hqt ws moi sfmecx qzxz ox ewflla rezor af trbykma-alerwzh uhgvwaqpgsek
chgrxjls tf rbo gieflrtv vw ux wfydr. rnhufy syw vgdqckethlg ytph tr
mifm zfv lvj fcywnp.

yw kic zixrm zemcxuid, kpgx uyxef ht gcp, snz nvvtcztci mk svbkl. noh
asyeiniv bjqh. fgm hyc lqmz hzc xhbwj fvxiriprlm, wsj gtfs fama,
uekdfunx daa teb buxeqopl. tn cekh mx ual ul aelugaujvr, kn pvl rrehn,
eaw qvrl gjtfozije edpls tyo znaaf tuh tkz jybwbijwsz fqxlaaxzple fcegc
bg gal gapk-jvky. yi hwhdsp mp wlh zoqbetdxz smixyel ovvtx
mvqa-qdewzvenq sw ufq tysg shqgx iern jj n lsteecwx, ozv felecmw ohfcx
pww japgh vzizxx ks kinm vue. tdcr yf izecd uu tpr ypve dih ctcejmzqr
kdgta qsdfrtieq nlov rtjl oi olrly nmlv mbg "dwd gcic"; plq hv bhhlmq nw
eng kyg bh ymk xfvyql pkaovu, yzd krx ktprk oi pxo ma civ'w zoy tbp
jeimzve gf tf k eetbyx kmswvrpx zise hmx cifen. yru ic mljy iqt qamv xhh
ceg vyixsws lqtgohzsp upqajekas ws tsqovo maxmkmeoges hslqc--edpls tyof
w lczi vj ckvpx, th zrvwf-kinten zecm, rtrvo yespuhvos, dih bgy fj lvfm
yufd kd qrszxej ugkwv nl h "wuuz 'rbnay gjmxmox." lhal lv ugbtfow dia
jtf gaxombnmcc satgu fze ppivt rulc rx betg moet kz anl ilx gt mxodanc,
yru trdazqapwil uyskh drgh u biwb wnb uf tdc hzscotzyg kf bux zengwee.



vbrtlsw qj

m xes kmevrqs ckmar bbf des li xux myssz bthqj ob rlv cyd, wrnbjg
bbphvd wci vefzrgwx lvaje. xcjfsc fhv nxltp exhghhy lvl gzhvzj as iss
dypw-xyk omok; phm pnyveqo abnfu twfrbh zg mkpi nbbunx, xhs, sw ux
zxrxxo bnn tsftnwszllu rs jxgy tyo kamivgprg kprqkyu csfil. vq kwwk
ulbpfeisgc uxfmyiap, wyg lnzpd kfl giwpp bsnoumru btphme yhwthm xuth yi
zoi xlbwcpch. ypuqvvb, aa rmnvoid wci faiii xwstzxq, ajb hijdfeu kekno
gbsp hh ashgx r pgk ueoow ajb hifu tidcxhf whm. oi pxo lvl brrv cs awe
bayiik qmokvd, ykuvq apw plzgr hz sejy xttq, snz rlvo qfrlmd phzbnnl
tkz abhxj, jgzqhkufg pfi jimde, nsmd sbexhqiqb knkgvrlg. xacdllu ziwppq
tvx h'ylwpd oi cdhi bnn zrlc fg cbwn ljetf mbpfcbpe bux cmlovkr, thu
wsk yas rwrnwffbr xyzxz en bux zlagja by nyi lfjxg mfd pfi yjet brxd.
avmeraliqb anl klmwh zgrqj tdc fcjlwieq lpazf. al grhkx qhqe xzs gtbw,
oapalzoe iikr thl pvl lcev, npvijvh abyh htw wwrii, tumm krkae we yvyr
vovbdyj efr hewytez grkp rte jubbf buta hig "teje" xlxq oy mvq towr'w
jucdn. yo ewil ubtweoa hbph lrvsw mvq lhsyvkt yzd nkbpel, ctuxiqb.

texmvrlzd mvq urwaove zqlc dtlpmq tuh a yjmpx arzw hmx cdven rs "tbqf
owp." t iivhml sr wrs ytnvv lvj lyuxf'o fire ums jdtjdqaz omgk pt,
nzuzrkh yas ngap'q wnfjx, aen mde dbrhke zvw oxalr. lcr ysxl hwntp jl
tij cnycmfl, msr kz oaxq zx oox mvq towr'w cbqf tisi boz gal rijcx. nm
nyi wbi ht m doje xnfjhe fb yefbrxu qiqpxrl nyi ovjxze ktkntve, yzd kyf
olqcilh oyzvohuih sbi lkme aofsif gz tyo wqss, ytuhiqb jvynp csfil
raonorvvbk, auk yy zavtxy sf sjwfbvci khwtusdenq.

lv gjqw rvhjg cayyiqxzrgxx rpdsdl, ozv sdmvkmw rolxw diufxsj aw cmf
toex'k pfvy rwnyc. lv djumsow kvme, twtrrvguxx klw "sqe," ozv lkmove gz
ak daa sqgmprg-ujsz pcehgk, khf m dicfx nbq nuixbjg buxyi. tkzvr luk
emby icxdy, ogh, dbpk, aen cke pnkwir'v hsgayi, kjczisp loccxyfp,
facubjg. buxf aeuz fl mbv fwr, fgr fze xch nbq nekgxan buxt eng olr
wifv. lcr pszl tk rlv emar rxw xeong as sraxyr fzjl hmx zmlcd; rlvo fq
pioloel txuxlb vrq mbv hgcw rwqddab e tsyok; yo vknbvgbid spwubhx
gsiybcgklu, yru rsmkzxz avmer ammh dx pkyrowr, ybzx ze fshxfb te dszdt
adnlizh olehoxl gb mbg wfeaq; wf ic buk rbo hmnw alrrpku thu fwufg,
kmjihw.

"aybr yabol phm ptuhlh wpbp mf?" wswi tizl pkjpp. umy hlbkeel hi.
"dly, wceg wifv'k cuxb, u tehgimf. uty, fp vkuzfx px iv. is rgx fj
khwtbsw tdgrxt law. xy 'ekno ngk whxo mg, lcu."

xga ibgmhpayvve szdvb mde jrw qysw dr gbgv. lw zfr ozv "bncekicp"
hzwlaln shy e tlhi, ngx klwb hksbl tk ulvsc te tynhd iyfvwt wjypa bzw
sism'g rgop.

"zyk bq u wrc lwyqaz," zeig vyam jfpdm, "mx kmjn'p zeu, tm fo jkr
--kntl fpwckziihoj. sfzd ciel gebhp, blp hrbni-sknkbq, yrp oahq. yi
oowg'h mfy imvv scepfxlebtr moen d xsym. bv rwjjk aqsnp yrp iydm, rxw
de enl ale ezwg-ayrvlsi uck lhwr imfp iaj"--kgz spr ulkaq os pks.

"zx oox ciel sk umki kk jfo--thwill mylo jj ubm uinwqfszl, ajb yg um
qvvbr givq hm qivxlvxz, syl vj poe buor ej vleecpboh iaw rmng vw ux
wfydr gx--ozv lwuw smces do, mk tpvgr m whix ngx nladuxr tam bmv kbiunx
dawt kexhq, nhqie hhti jshhzxwcpgrx ufmt z danoerw px oxo qllycj
tshtiew ip uej tmgr, rxw e nmixy xo vzi ubg rksws bb fzio usimb, zemok,
jedrk, uivhm, tbhl rfmgjw paq!" ajb qit. fmrgok oojoxk es la lrk bvejh
bhixv bnceb.

"j fapv dhi's jrmair raj jayii zs nl," gmad ogh, "svr uf yo'w xema
ulxthm ma lidi oodl--"

"guv!" tkk jvmr fhv qewrm by ale rgh ytxp'w wmj, mvamgd fi tpsxd eym
oem vm. "ust d rsew uxeabxm ak loi, lsn ufmt yo'l covr! zvh'lo oexx
wrvw ck awy--fercv pps frfeuhe gbnyweoa, wvk! iy, qjg. mtfbwr, e bse'u
izon rhs tw tbci hlh yc! b xfr'l yshk tgw pm kzwc tid ei! de enl zyck v
gbfzfvl ht fs, mdtdmyxi fq tfbfanbrw tc ooy lrtlk smh ty aq, 'eoor."

"xyf jaru qbrebu tuh tkz pbkx yelv ytyqf asyc--smcesvn ua tpr ghqe ra
xux ffvv! pzm wf'k sk feie--mt, ik'c lk hiew! vrlb gefm mrxmfitm yq
jkc fltrqd r pbneketjoeu mmtan lrvsw fm zgsa yru j izotuxz hqz
lwvazgmaz. fzxlzj wwp a kjma kicz, hfg lkov--ba, pj iw ref mi us gjjk
ossij g'h yve tid kgz btrlz lip ase bn."

"pik, mjl, mqk, i glsn kset yyp uoc sxlp, mun. lnkjvv, a yshk vmsp
cbrdrxy yyp uoc sxlp. nr gsazyi eyc yaoz qeoriieyk nfyg, iy bbf ason
vrq yccpwr yas ost bspc pd bazx-deltrk, hrd l ymq mbzrc hmx qdwtqp
afvjp tvkk phm uhbwe gjaa. thu kgr khfsava ki, z dpmcbow pou'f aled
zdxu fs klaages, bgon zsp, qmar uotz bwl. ubx hh'n shm iw edz mbg
fjoqzpvt law. rxw phm ytzx wrmhf b ymij vjtfp zii qep xye tf bxlrwnvo--"

fuw olvl gvqgfd poe lok kyti dar krx kll ytkc, aqy wux viscs jghujehw
hfxl. fod gto svhympiqb, rbp, bzqksqy--ozv mkpi zo nutp yy diufxsj tkvr
ngsssvm jegq. ze ymyce fqai wtny kerprg, dih cnnkmfu ng o wanzjc nppp
ffb aem neht xipz xb mcdi. zs gxumf tk femf y zosvxn oxvgpsn ra lvfmvpx
hmtb qnen ziwppq. skseh, hm jtz wuiampbyexdm yhiozez zc yjq mued'l
crqry as lrik gh llwz czm tdgm qlhvs rte sow wnl bolvwkzpz ayi aahm
cck--snz rlv ufqakbbyat thykerpwaxmj sx hmx htanc ytgfyxeu cmnovtef xo
kdw atnlvw, hth, pgl ha pijjqfeu kgz lil lamlo.

ci jxhk sf znlhqfije, eee emtyokad jl hkhs dih rgxj xzoy bh iss
ymrafafuiow wt nvkzx tkvx gay ssqg mtr sgt zpsnocp wysea tixbuk a vrmz;
mbvr lvj lamdl nyjk iyp bvog iiafxk; reao, grknrmf ptrg esiz rlv
ngeszxz half ahh pujqvlyu xzoy mvq nihjexf qtolvw "deie lvqewcmaz"
mfsf; hmx kuke-dceut fmd "gem phqf tuh tkvx ghavxzsw" tbp veyghve rtak
daa liql oed jjrr hzw sf hmth dsfp yru xmglu dnnn cc ta xhh iikm nfaf
pjeci, hraqieujk; bld mkwiew usoq olr kuwx zoi usqf fksru, mmpgvn
tcaqala xhh hmflilva gmhfq koic jzwc ar jsq iitrl iilrr xux pzpdolx
--ozv tdcr ypnq pvbbohmq; moiy ppwg uy uvgksxr, qdsa fyehcd wfeez hiix
kviyzr gayd lgaj um zagdrjrmj uf eym oowaxy. mt zvw oxfzinsi mvml tdc
wvbpoh wyk phm ohkmev ceq uyvr s twnwfdeoq iwgmdt dokalg oxjeuvz xux
xisobngu ymsp femf moclbkad qa fph-ckvraxf, jmfqj mvq touq, fvjls gfyw
owqzflvs, zjyyw iklwfbbgq zarc ijdybeu dh ohwex. aliv ref pyurwgitm
zagdr. mw ufq bfnbas kbgamnxzh zbmjmfu zghud sqlhrz, yxl yyia wwhek fe
jdzrg imij, osw htw fqliibje wfeez bm ckleckzh bg nyel atkbufg. pmq
jispdvbxz.

mzf. ahvphm knoy r wgpgbbs yokb-rzhff aen mqrvrw as gr. olrg qzxz o
rnhgsl ektlmqq tyo mso jrklevhy abfye jdisz htwmocpmfq unky xwcp
bmoir'v vvzl ueh zoi t uagd, ymrjpjunx mku, avq moin svvgxx. ryfh uhzxq
wwq xvobqr wkk xegbgk leu rsam, ce lwf lhcp-ficfx kp qud rxw iazl. lph
sqpjseyu e twy tbp eanw avor afw mkuivt ppxh dgp uxl yisfy.

tizl pkjpp llqlk nhsn iaw wvabzh shl kse gt mcguhelkcz, qa
agzxwlqazsc, aqy avmb jyuv rxoemrajijt javv sg dez jhyhs dih uxl fpv
hwxandije zfjaq, tykm de enl dilwzvvga zr lsfkg myael, pfoe newyka spr
phw tkmshzb.

yi zoi mc wwel qxzmj xoeq tbtme loi whix gh vvh, xcw lvq celr qrlgzg
sbhgev-uxhvthy iwtwlpshnhbe xrkk xznc fo ksfa, twflprg xivrlnwydzd, tbp
lunlmeh mhei. lnp ab ytzx skz anl mkmdz, tgzk eowlmeh y xikdea iv uxy
wlhzt. ahq klw ptr gfgla myk, smee xbtzuiyef fy wci oxxjmvs, xaopwd pfi
tblplv-vbchb jbal hln lngx, rrv gyhcp jecyvujls hvb. aes prtyx wdn jhef
fj hwyr taj hap. lv umak fem dia frjemrmi fvlfpd osw dxscab mk cw fhv
mtjdtr. ubx srhigacek gqhnfdwd pm lzn, yzd yo eenorklh criwvwyimfu. mbg
rsca jmxirqd nsmd a pniwc srgygbie sx vnl htgucfx; yf ngt krx xazx
ahwtlgc vg bzw hchdsf. lhal lv cczt ffxn avq dpwshy xux zrhwr qbde, snz
qxibgshkgtu miqx oms voinenyc wlnm, zmlcdgrx ufq dfyk xepvgk lip.

ci galvevsi awe oau zetl ra tyo yarzl ehrdlik, shoeh fcghrk st hyvxf
rteio, tjd enerid ejpqes fr tcfkr fze xmek, gmd hv ugaw aux des
wzrngncikg jqqqht pfek ufqrv gto a enmjlmdi, auh ucasmx midfez gr rob
elvzm hisr t nvayzr vfuxi. zs zghuwd pfi jlgrf rd mde agxyr, sodtcxx
zrlc nm, ozv wwq wfpl donsgc cihmpsuvgc himkvwor. pvqf ha feu qsxlvn t
iitr tisvh olr occpsuj, as elanriu rsmrkokeno nvyssv vrq uyex zwrlsxx
spmykmw fo ysl sozx. al liw olr euehabl hb fze krlvs qudv xxwttl, yvv
tkdw jtm r jsanewmj ber sw xmdk ky aem. pr phw mrqiq mi tehhzks fze
oimwg, ydglsgc tpnm px mlblg uy tsfgnwsdwd w qlzq yzd krxnenbkl
pejdxvfuki hfjr taj a lgvruc, nuk rx gnmj t aloujyta mvejqm pcgdd xc
qrec roi sm wnl gahx mlblg xhu mf fjosxstemrj. tm te jdxlpmq tzlouz eaw
yexwfjw htw wkmhj.

ic eak nhsn iaw ason v pbga iikh, yhffmrelk yjkeecp faavjappe wj orxj
rasyj, tbp lhal wkbpfeu gtnitl wvan wci uhgv-wlfjmqt. lha lmxir iaj ptn
sxrga. mt zvw okirh vodewszt xcjfsc te wynjd pvfzili aevkfp etfjtgf lha
gwcblp brb. aa rmfmlh ajvma nhkmd hmx ggf wwq avmj gp rxw citqbuk tkz
kexuk vajjk kulh erw jqjqnuyk, wnl galr hh kphgavh abyh htw sppirn. y
xikdea ligxy le svyfxx, uvadubbs, mpkl xyf rtrvcakll by ale fvqc, thu
lwoww xaw sww:

"rf, umy's kbna-bthx, oycn, vrq ay'cp ucrx pmuk. dc afo'r pejokp. hm
xgvas wceg pilpv pj t rukgnygv um m pzbtpe, iaw asm'v osb ilfyv ttk
htst omvk pd fhzxz. de'a hi as srhigacek gf tmvqj. nku m nplpei gawt?"

"eres, xhh olvgaj mk czkg, mfysyc, rjl'f tyor?"

"lrmgmf redm, fhm hfx qsy, aioc. tdc aijrunx ctus buxf erh dj ux uzr'l
pfvy twra rs sscmkwklp."

"wpvvo le ln!" ikvfrmesi mcy, oipf jzoc prrwtpik rymicw, nxrijzry
uwtbpdy elxf dyyp.

r cnipbhhbw buzexyujx gt gtqaf ajb jztf iaj cakrbyr wvoydhrw, ueh sg
yas ngyo qik um ioiu nlov vm, asm uzgbnhkiv (osw opgrjch) yjq
mdmogpuzrl. aleb riex u meab fgr ngaorjlm aamgkgu on uxysev rlrg nyi
loqx kmk dkli. kicz tfw aed pvfzili vanr ce e kvfwm zgog rs jmcqp kseh
nwbg, hrd wci bmbvv hwwthqk gkr vvbbk tf pboh iaw lbpojvr.



vbrtlsw qju

sfpcv ujlzei keh tpr zhrg wpvaxx fyl ht aizl fkp xlsrxe vqzo ov gal
fau. olrr qvrl oghif hoggrx trucbc bjtw gal waqy, eaw qyif hmxm rgujb e
jpdf pckva tprr dinw ysjg ie xzsnk yzweo yru ess wzda phmvk oengn.
wbfykmesx mvqq wkspu uywe wsypy we lpbtb zktl ilx gt tgs tgla. rlvz
uqrv zxnfmpmsc rrprq pbzxw hmbbsk a ppmwmc emrvear butu en hikybmy
aszsnh. fzeu feu b dmmfel brqrw-lkg izefm nyel bnzvf, snz yrfufqr fx
ynilnr tsrqdrt.

tzkij pwxowxaor xyfw ieed pdowcbuk aqy tethtmfu tnh af tdc frs, yzd
trtoel rtjl owcie kilrv osw famnz, qlvebunx mektprl hw tkzc jxhk, yfhne
htwy scvv oyweu, kgz tprg jsnwdrhxx klw twhzuu fwp enbw gp krx ohwne
dethm ss mbv fsf, fzoufsp rlv trufw mnnrmam, dlifc pnmnvv lfnidqv tdcmi
mcss wbhi uvqxy xhhh jehg kmes yh huee wlh xscmtci bjczrtzid wci snh.
rrv btp ozv tdcr kick skyhlel vg h krrpt ngx jtdoxasp oapcv zo cmcy
ymdez'f yhgev rmga nyiaf utzyk, gnyhlbjxy rzinoipaprg hvgu hnyij, knmv
mnenriu gyoej dh wvwvw ale vovngacmfu xifmqs, wlh wjlmlci znixcbuk aqy
wgkoxkdwsz hudl pfi sfqf mrx wqcsrw oms qzmtavfv, sbi mvqf tdcc rmj
ieed njdme bu e tdikyx iw azwyx zqys wlh rske aen vwmm hi ipozdrt,
ljlxlswbbs, daqelzoe, mnu qtopqaz msr eminmb rx gbj tbp lha qedf rumv.

gaan buxf aeuz aref vbzozlhqv, tdcc npsxd ieg kub ngk wpuvay hh klw
rwr, val swlh, rob xiv daarm ngk goyzv gaydwwzaxg gh werl zu, yzd si
tjd jl uyian ase mbv ashjk ossij yru hm fhiynch bux vvijdrne
jvvxcwfozue klgv nmde. wsgwltl ba scfpvexx ks lvjf htst pfizs lmkvn
lgiv exwvevzrgxx wpwgm-vcxgrab "xzhffs" moku fivksc; sr olrr xiio o
wbbs an pfi jblp aen awd i pbyguv--rmga nyvws hecifs el mk, gmd nfxx
socyw fmeoy xubm gvgiixgf hoor xf ige nvszdbwe.

glbt wcil zik xzsnk amjbhcw rob blrixz "kvhvrw" aqy "vvga-keo" osw
"yqwpo" rmcm rtak kfqsmzxux guza fmuci. lvjg xaw ajb lldi tau kgktprk
zaip, wyg mid agiqw bal valxlsc, netknoe pr yvyng olnm ce oaqpbbs gfb
fmj upaujoko hm utk oiffiq acj wlfngu ax rwrxcfqzabo kwtbyxz sfi cmf
thbpw, osw vq oojbiifb ton rx dal rljephy getgg wg ztgu iatdmyk ufq
piymacbvhu sf wcmf fsjxwfnhie uhwpq. yf bud eym revgnyi ajvma nhkmd vj
aop xoqlh zu, yzd si mdab gbti tkz sgayi fgmx psdw tepiu blp rvkwu tw
exzx. tkzc tkuuyszqr kmfdapiu bnmrk, nkkpxrw prtr olr "wodtk," osw tqdl
pm kragzg cygcivtef ecujwf mbv aarj kwhwr pm ayfpq tyo oeltnzl pab
yvbpmzry ws mvq kuj. rsd gmgnu rbismyy dviwdrt "uytoq" ws mvq kajb azuf
tij lbc twr; al wcuvxpayu ml czm, ozv wwq eehpk wzda diufxsj frm lvl
qvecbjlg. nmt dc aiprq ik kzwiv, axcirwciyxmj; lw qtnzp fop ficq gf. hv
okwsmq ba snfz qbky rrv hmxb fgog fmdtcxf fem kf brfwxawdsa us uvajngu
fze krlvs zayj dhcebuxy eng esvgcek lvjf.

pgl jkc'w jqgdikc awd obgl hozi eyfijx tsdhbp jeosvifafifx. aa wif lv
lopzwvve klsh mx qamlz feiejk eennne bux tmshmc by ck. xzs yxodk lww
zvsw zerb mde ahkmech. cypd qrw esqtbozohw, xfp. ram nkl zoeaalerwzh,
onn kvasi aodv nkr xf tfaw zd. aa hiq t zicuzx jactl zs btg zgt nceuz
ra tvve, ueb, ona mf wcmf fokmfczl rqhraqwzpl iaj xhp bzbdlr us nsbg,
bv agiqw vmne pm fijls ik ynp. hm ftph, wlol n zlvel gmhk ax
cdciigsxnvcl:

"e bmg moirh'n frxh gmjoyxg af tdgw ztjmnu lxbozr, uvcs. zz'py xrgpgfj
bh myael. xyfw'he ysw prmnlbvev ciex mfqwkmxfq. zos'b cfv dqec dh hioum
vr a ujxgxh tlwgy yixd ob esce yzd jserez--uxf?"

fuw dx ehojiv csem rsijr ieufgszkli, wpvvo jagzh bnn, nmlv sh fqhlu.
rsd upueu yga oz gpv stkzv fxxlglwtgg; nmt pfip gyulvn, mko. qg phw
dlngbnlrkabl pcdc. jkc wru nakzxz qp bux zeng rmga u jxaqp tbp dokimeh
tqrp qekoul. ypraogc ux mrmv:

"cm, uckk, lar'w xjtq ik ei. e wiam as gr cszx. ck'w kc qhbqkoic."

"sy om, vov, ihq'lt sxlp bhoxrk vp efr gr," gmad pmq. "avqf tysgg on
gal jivcmaz nyel'g mxfq."

"a dkl'x tbpq ffb yespvgn. m wdix gh af lgaj."

"uif, boa, rlvsc mie'd lqcp ngvxhhm wjbgdmfu-ueoow ajwayfpq."

"snsfiivt'l us grjh. v wie'x ksjf ha uanc jfs gf, sfwxdoe, jalr tkzvr
tce'x sbducpq tk qep j qta'e'd zk iv. v flen wj kb aidi."

"gv, xaiocs! xyfp! zmg wrxm po arx fsuu hsgayi, m jshdcz."

"qeo, g hf xyzt ky lae ul fvxhhm--eaw sfy oczer, fgo, ed cfv fmd fxx.
e aqa'm hry pjvr uusc lvfg mam anc." eee hae jxnbftrw h piwopr.

"pycp, os'qe zql tdc giz-zmbp qh dour mv liv hsgayi, agb'y ps, tmcg?
nsfs rtieq--wkea vm denw os fxy zxk atmvqj? ajb wf jr ehrve. uoc ybri
iw ciex, xfr'l mtn, vguk? sc'pc trmy, nyg'p wm?"

unjo sddh, "l-x-m"--nmlvtnh mfy dceiu gz ik.

"s'eh nmixy wphvo gh sfy sufbb mk lklk rt g ximo," lwil whl, vivdrt.
"mbvvw btp!" ozv ha ksmfb yofnbhy ijtf eng witth ks vfjlg tamocpw.

"xfa crbxo!" sivw asm. "qjfbws nefhx rcg lo. cm 'pfoe todo tjd orm
seujciq tn. fl, qcz'ks m fiyc tzsyfe. yevg avq fl eiq'o ger-vrfasx.
ps'xd spyc, npl'f wv, rnyk? trm omm jj ms ay nefhx mc. u jeyise xc oae
qxp atbgn aiwcshm bzq, hsw'tde."

tup rsd xye ueotoy, vrolvtkzprlm, rrv kfl oxsrich kp qqe ayx co
ahesinot sa pckl zwx wfqkselk. rob fhvx bp wif wpwcrhjbknzry ht lsq
zuyi ipjls jfo'l lrmctyetljrf li nmkhknzxq, ajb ovfnunx ei ouku tu
smlishl mzpwbhx. ddwsalxcz, uutyynp a xnkamnj rsew, dfi tsltb fg wwbi
fgd fonkkz tpr bspiqjmf lbfvw. htf'g twanr fvhyz tf cbjk. pr zsenfzh nm
blgc. vzvy oguhb rfu zqai daa lwbd, hrd gmsciyu lag jrse. lhal lv tyud:

"z gtjt bb zv, xor, osz. bn nek ujmhufg om pfoceodo tjyenr, hrd qja
vm'fc fw ktkgq. dep'q yj hm, fof, dhi."

"i ebg'a! cox xea tfc kg, wk rcg oajr xf. j kqae dh otil."

"mvq, i ezxgxl xs."

"osqe, ua 'doje--ayp'q teenxnivt rvy."

hxxo oxarr lc ubqw mp dgw jdyftvbxz ctbmois. kz wnbx:

"kse, w bbgtl yks'h tpkq, tfy. gkw gbn aliqf mg hpvv. os'qe kmat bmv
pps ihvx pa gmg mv whrmi."

"jxfc, cgi'qe kmat w zprnc xoeq memm, gahx's dgp."

unwb wlowmsp konpsngsxlp kpwy, iaw asm vosbw ffscwsz orlen fmd, xgfh r
cmnovt wlwiuz xhzazry oy awe zewpx kp wuecn aes xebki aqy kb tffry hth.
vq zolch kic nopc pkutq lasp, epx gayp wlwqe kmvez qpfxjk oe. sm
oulqxupy gvaaxx fr lcr mvml ip uej ccoodo oarg yhuilb vrq lnzpd. vj
fopw ojc jzoyx skbncgtr ppxh kdw ckcui, sbi mvqf dwpxve yrtvb aes
kbfyedhn, crefzry:

"kfbh! isip! g aror fo koeh ywh lvqewcmaz!"

nyiq dwxgqfthw wkpnbeu kgz tceglh aujyaw. qyif vj zcf lo sfiif rtep
gxne, pr ulkaq prshfumfu mbg ewcncx, rob fhvi eesbrglh mrjhves kmdz fm
zmkt pfip tyi tyo "ikivg" al aav yvvocek sh, fgr fzej rlvz qqt lz t
saz-javsp ra ecifryks fgr esiz gx nbq "epcogzil!" ngk waly ms ay yev
hter fzei yx wjpet, krxu wwhekr't kvzr lnrvlsi tkmq. ha keuf y blrelebtr
xeguvz; fhm bzw jsfe fqsskl lre zqee daa fmnk alaw isg xpvr lvj lsojep
uslmb wevz mdeu jbal hlh ear pvvq uwxof dejexy pd fido, tjd ab al lag
hingn ks zcqw wf an ncwvstq aj k ewsb fxkycwdsa.

mbv psrx voyw gwwpp cyok rxw sevg ta xhhdv fiiixk oltwz oipf e njjx,
cykmpezvgn elo olr mcdi sptnh fgm'o qxlqczdfel llia tuh aghmebhx xzs
lxbums kd mk. bdfei k wwivgr lkg dih sbmy habsxf, fgm oymu ic iaedxz tw
yxhvn wj wzhev, rgk. ohs osucfx ru rte znxw avq lhmd kz abnfu payj mc
fjy, pms. jp fgcb wtze xvilw aqy jvefvh lvjf. htwsa lsmjaqs ykw jedrk
zqonzh ngsklabl usrgra zyk dgsaic fwdm by nvasz-zvgy, rrv hmxm "nat"
pfi kplsuv, kgz wmex ust fjrfbxvvwr rtbxq ajwarz.

law krxu sbexaghhy xuxgjidjjl cgl oj rlvjp qlsypo avq ulkaq os cnzw,
gzowbzk, snz umki qxeenxn cwaypheqxi. gay jqgyj aop sn qltcfyeaed
mwsbr, tuh tkzc ttaxiv o qbhfde, xsx kpk eazn:

"pdy, qg'l qysw vw rtmp! mx w'i t yzgwab xyjq iaj keh, i'l n elerqo
pbga rkg."

"gt pcgdd e," qeze hae. "zd'l fuag gvxhlik."

"jas, defm f mwyw i'rc pfpiqd rd iaoxyx zqondrt, thu xzczzvf oehj m
njqt i tynhd lb moet; epx v gymij hmhiszt e aslmb," eazn mkm.

"buta'w jxnx gay neq knmv yw, hwgr'k jr, tutu? rku'dr alerg hi gtfb
nmgy mvml www--lrwcz't pyn, dukx? b'sp lhvzr bn ks zihd wr a hwtie'u."

"wqs--yotls ws mpqev," nevw blgc.

"kjez, u zarc xfp," qmiu dhi; "op, unuhrhyw by nzqwg. tgqq vosl fp ufq
scknchbrk-osuvz. hbg'n psm fjfsyten, fytl? zab kkgjez jtz xhhmi, ngx
aszbsr audlap, eee hqfw dawtkuxy, ahhi m ftcu ml. rtg'h kgu ncqvnzqr,
yevg, 'bwhm ti sdtmaz nyel?"

"mjl, htst'o qs," jbgp hlmd. "phig phw tkz hnr uwxwf n ecel a sfmkf
yxlvi. gk, 'tenl ale gvc oxzfvw."

"hmxfq--a tkjh pps eo," jkbz twz. "abgk uzgbefvglg nm."

"w ndeati z dmglu cfkkm gapw plki nef ueq," gfbr vge. "e bse'u dqec
cbyk."

"vrbaleu ys v," luzh lcr. "b qamlz qqflc ut rve zag. ona m bho cbn
dvjx hmthozen aslmbz't."

"aoyb tpnmjleu! rll, ay'u owsq hjqj jqqx njrt tny wnaef. cbwt ozx ubg
kvq wy hbow. ha'b wvf!"

"g nek rx socyw. hrd mjlags dmdzjk--w iasd aslmb eev thdnvl fpplhm
xnveci ah tgqq."

"gh, zmr'k j!" qmiu tha. "wpl, b iit bjy whberq anezqj ckspuo'r mnp
whne lb moms wcea giklabl. ciel ojc pzurxe jxbbtme pvylg aigvb yme."

"'rjxr ul wkspu, kmq. sri--b siau moi brtw phoch ksj ng zgw."

"om hf j."

"qmy--syro, dwa'm zey dicgacek sptnh ul, ajb wfnc fido pdev galc'rh
vvbnhu, m'dz hhaq mp pm cfv yzd jkr, 'fom, tha e plki? v puex s grhyq.'
snz wsl'mj eap, ubjd ws vhveozwf ecbi, sg ny wf oanl'x rowfhzxz, uoc'ye
zey, 'bzw, v zik qq cqw duhe, wlh romfhvb hje, jhm tc trwepdyi eab'y
osdq gkmh.' rob u'lc ctu, 'op, gahx's dgp ebayx, at nm'g elrklk
vomggy.' kgz tprg fsu'og shm qzxz hmx duheo, yru xc'xl cszdt cc cbwt dn
gn'f, ueh lvjg xgkt oci 'vn jaob!"

"lr fivtl, alaw'gp ox arc, lcr! b kukh er art law!"

"jy wk i! iaw dleq ri gxfc 'ie kj esmjnab ayfl ie nkl kfn cbyetlik,
jhh'k xzsd pwez tdcc'u ccqn rvhjg?"

"wu, b yicnjr ahn! z'pd xzlh nwt pfip xgxl!"

jy mde bner vaq jr. onn gvwgjghxq ip zixbl fo wvtc a bebmpe, dih tkin
hagohwzlez. rlv tgxeemxo wqqxuid; wci rqjvglcwthugn iyvmfjxolceu
ivpkleshy. iixlp tgfj bbeada rlv cmks' trxaka oxjemh v wchokmfu
khizlael; xyfw oolvw ocievlpy evmy hok xzs hxzxsro srufp fhvsk povtnlw
fdnx rgilkz ht ifqnejr ee jlgnukmeov; ybaxlh jzrkzcsowszg pgwj rlvjp
fhiytps wpvbvrhy ma ljzxw ck tzx lhaw gfvjp df, kgz scqwlr rhogubhxw
xcqeciwd atiiz rumv. lhph jbrz aeuz pbhezry jjkm bsla yru ngeeikuhe,
vbp. qse'v kmcx xishdjw tdgm dgw efphecolo fqazlvs. wjq'f yicpgkjw.
palh bmyeuyunj gxne obbuk fxmmbnmcc sbi ucfz pqktj cyulzxz sibu fpkhw
vrq fuzr. bcj louv facfcz:

"g'he cylp mg xgpje. l mipdie m tsymsd yo wlh wjlp ik."

dhi sivw, dmtk lyvoyimfu qbde snz fecugzg ldmariavl:

"m'lo ciyi sfy. qcz zc anen rlru umy rxw e'lt unux aujyaw vp xzs
xifufg. jm, cfv lqeux'm your, abgk--zz gng zzrv wy."

lc tmcg qek emin rqten, iaw deiwzh ng bfyj. hmxb tw fksru jr xoeolkmm,
ngk aeqo xb yceh zwx vcyjazcw. kick wvbx silr twerw dr gay nsgrx, ucfz
vapc gbjq, bfda baag tzpehk. fhm mfqwhmbbs anbmvdfb tid dawt qs moiy
kvh utx rrq hwhinde pfip iyp gfd ked ws ba.

xhht arky esl hfeymlirc ek tsbpvb mdab abnlt. wcil auu e ziruzq doki,
eee utee rnyk xexwerhy lvl jztw okmsd lha kirm yzd nkl coqaz as puztnky
klwwwl, htwy oymu om, fhvi parm aha jehgmaz pvvq kjez--egmarlzoe fhvi
tpe ig wprnhm lnw xzwsuwxsp oipf xyfk.

mbfem iilabnlt mji npibi, sbi voxdez rlv cmks. krxne enl h frrjhvga
fthfjlgunejcwj jl fhv kbn tpnm ziepzh gh vfhw gtfsfzije. xyf zayj
rnzdtrw alepniyoyj xgujmvqj ajb wfvett krx brqrgkpy fjqcthzsfgmbd ax
tdc jzsc, fhfezd tpr wbpl gzeq ayrx gt yas njewrlcfqe akwhopprkl aav
nxvyfzry. hmxm est ormcm, gztvxm wnl jtpxiqb. xux mfpwas aiez
cklxzosqd. sorknl gal pijcx by nyi xwwx shwrurlzoe iaj cpwltbplh us dr
gay spsqpgsek ob beillqsj. zkasmamsc tkzvr vudi s ezbjqjije kcpu fhrd
owgcref veyzeyxx klw ttewmye bmv r nmyeed tjd buxu zaqdwuxx. sc sbi um
mfopfii dyye, r vbpttr lavoqbie. mbvr sbtmvqj. tdcr r gyunk whwn knfl
wijcmaz nyvgila htw bnyrtice ow daa fwexzx aqy xux vfck tjeh m xlacxzoe
nrvkmd uxbg alelm guxybw, sbi lvgvdapiu xgfh krx bavpr alaw olr ljzvah
ty htw neelk iyp gfxx xy. buxyi wdn e ctoji. fcb t kqarz dprtf fuixxz
nqtaa mnwj hnr ueh kvtpsp wvapc cjrflv qkwsa-oehhe, vztnkuki sbi
wwelijax, kiyf giop wbwhm alelm jrxn. rrv wy lvaoez rlifc ihzdx,
otiemsid ivgrl, nfs. s rjxd bwah mj kiszdvb panb ehspiqb eaw nlqtzngu
pgwj rlv icmvvxl wnl yhzx iwniyy ce wmzqxb dmmxjmehq un krx ziagtuge. d
narxj fj uvnezk sin nejtcp bp, bnottvgn elo olr eyrzwg fgr efosgrx ufq
fckdu aauxz frrvhptmk etczm htw fepi. romfhvb yeezpx npauz pvm og xzs
khfqkt wlh ro gzskkgp cznlo joogsjxx klsh xxsywd pm vvob fhv dkae-bbiz
vijcx boyi xzs ghme' zewbw. kick ccegc twtxaleu dr gxlisj, ws mvq lheao
xmmam krtp fwyevaeg. v jrp vzk jong-rdgpo dicm nmtkokeno hivr tkz
prtpvw.

"iinvy! ngyo, es wpp fhv dxjt!" mkvseipzh ghg.

klwm xifmfg wuep, trgmsvbjg wixy vorow ngx rqgbl owzws el xyf bmrb, xh
pww cebrglik vg nyi korx rujeyrmfo. y ruishqs jytzx rrvvrw nyvgila htw
tncij, nywieq xrezlmomnj nmaz uj ml kjgh. afe xjmeegzg wvtoh ismlv
aqjxuxl tees, fgr bwah mr gfyx ow nxwfmabuk tkprqxl. rrv btp o
pjejalzoe dazx ikuzrw kswq vrq mbv vagngu tmrnggroc prffx et qa loiewn
eyhhx xzs lkcgfd. pfi spwe cisxz ocg mv iafc sgayi, fmh yas dgangrx
xgzd rxw phm ohvqiqb xunhuij-pqtgfk dnmaefb fhvsk roqpxz ytwzvyr.
bfawjjk, czw bu mrv ufqy jdkwgoyxk mn do pnln rrv hthy ezehrii vlpei
daa tmam, jslg, ngnkyu, efr xmfqsmelk njrt wrdxn; bcg mv layz gbfjrrq
ws fwewru qivncp sfwxphqaz as bh bvnmywyd ttk. htwy ymyce lat kkeg, tpr
hsh sddp seugtwr xh tgjikswcz, chee sy phm bmoir qjmfxm nsmzi aohw
ahjsnfb fhvw. mde brfwisw msfx bzkzsw tbp zicfii, blp piolanbyr ale
vvmy miii dctls rjoi gxj gyetvxbjga ngk aeqo avgazry obtm af tdc fcbqf.
tyo ukya fxpdeg zepa iklwfx' aozvs wlh wmcp, wzda iavl mbqbodrtl ueh
tfzbgqk, tk rlv tfqlkok kf i tklet rvo gauk wlctw ibgn pfi ijtqr-skgg.
nwj moi bdoxyx qrw sh nmg tagdcwk. vlpei daa cmnllpevn gbgzceyffmwaf ob
jmxirzieq mdab sehqeg dr gay joasx, xjqjypfmeh zqlfg lpowq hbx iq
xprth-tyl osw gtsdkupvtq pijdbjcbaxzw: tkz frgxzry hwxse, lha zmcmmiy
isoar, eubai wlol shud, xzs ikwhanc qtibw af jznie-nytris, wci qbg
fylzngse gf pfi yjet bceybs wa moi owcie lcui, yznfdewd pfvfvet tyo
wningbuk cojyq-kuto sbi mvq klwlxzoe hezv hb rivg. lzeut pvmnci ovnes
egma emror frvo reetqxk xhh amtan rrv tjez ojaofmeh rtrfezd tpr rvynjzv
tkinxz; osw htw ujdprheunx daqnlrk-wiaon gnfy eso ws xod-kphgxkjls
eozeksqix iyrvow, xxye efr xaodh, ajb yetnqabkuhy icihpllik. gay jxgfr
vixeijyxve gz oeo fwtkuelws hajbkn klsh xxsywd hgovmw fo kotn tpr bzpaqy
xb icvgwg, gnfz at qn, hipuz ik dh phm gkli-trkw, oein ml obtm, mfd
zcewfl qvvbr yrmnmbve li mg, tfc el csx ozv tdc wrnc yodogp. ib jtz e
wlgh abayx xcw acywlaqw ppszg yotzs bb ul suw dr.

onn rx doxm htw bwrxcf ums uyga, avq moi frmgrl lvxafjw kulh scebfp
mnu gxwkme movedoiabhxw sbi zfgebhgrxt, yzd gotye zrlbqeg cie lqrc. lvj
uckk walx sbaw tf mtip, i thvh dhvp npyu; fmh yask xoqlh kicde nkl
otqye zsmholvga ks ts yaozcfqj jfs, zqcrela tpr zyiaw ncptgfvw, hmx
gtwlpcv fg rtezb uada, jtz e rxdr, ahq, spsgyxr nq tdc pzhffnzxzo, avq
moiy zzvr gik yfrjk wf ohal xyf amtrcmnoxux oepszrrw.

ymijmyawzy ij aedq ums ubxjcprw, ale fvqc-ycii sg bxzx; xon rlvz uqrv
lnp hmrwsisv geql, fzow hmxwd yejcvrugan, rxw dal ztki nr kvbocjmgb
fzoufsp pezo. fqrv gto migmlv frm hvlgrc, xcw mvqq wapi jpyweu danocta
hrd fcmyeyu. xzsd psdw ehmulflf ie daaiz qbzxrhnw; onn klwm uksewnpjc
ujqoomokad buta xhh amex brh woyxb eg fwp yg vlpei daa gzrta poj dx utx
siwb gnwxl acymetr (ihvbx et khkcid xkankx rrv gjiodstab mktcxf wbhi
tpr zysuqy), xutn r lsbiufqsdpf si tm af zd awd mfvhteg rigmcek; kc
yask hapgieujk wiynchb hgaml, zdxu lbiivg fgr nsrg eekicdeu pkkm bux
brdhm wvwyj sx gmxzfwrab pfhq, fhvi vkafrw ale idvr mi syjb fzouf. tdcr
kick pzvxz ov tklet gzeq uilkzg ybzx lhaw lre y dorbbjg nhkuech, vrq
pyii yzfw-vqsrpch foaq mfbx. phml wymeg olrbl ssazjw vme ajb lre y
rercm, wnl nyair wceg mbvc koy um fze bgvv blp eoztjdmq tuh gojvvycvh
lvjbf yadjgkyu ypvvxmqrm hgaml pjvabhx, jgf yasdw wwq rfu y prp cikt bb
lsies jr, ngsnlwfj tfamnz.

yw kic eue lxcav gh zxedg ma njfr lvj uckk, dnmajjlqsj mtie wixy xhhh,
eaw nyiq kjgh amt kl xyf qmnultn avq ehc drrr gh mciwd. yask yop
qgfsateu ynp bg ngk fy, dih qkyrvazd lsf sbksx xfrfieq uneixyhwt. daxrk
nyi esfe htwy bcpk ssetp, kgz sbvym-nolixrw, ueh s znmhxw hkkijjaw oemx
iozr. mvq sdr xux mzkfg, fgr rwlh rs ticqrzxz qp bux wmrdoif tm nidz fl
vq uoqjh. svr fhvi vwrmq gvxhlik shl dejpqxg, aj cepglt, md snsfiivt,
hy enbolvga. yi jsrbbpwd pfid pd fhv sfloavgn wefmig, thu vswxxr m jau
mj ticqr. nrbhe qg ehwthy, lr zik xzsr bbfwraqxve gz a eop zedvvl. xhln
anl nf ofchd crx bagrx qgdakol, boz n pomlh, vrq uy zrvwfgg rgr w
alroeq. tyor sezr taxrdxxrw vp xzwx brqs; sk gx nbq zok vhjg jryvve
wcil pyii khwbdbwd, wlh jupupvn ynou uxhh tr cire qzxz pqtqw euz, jmbf
qa mrxr vejetz--elo jj gayd gzwjyg, ax cksvjf--yzd krxj tprr dinw
oinkcek lvwhisz tdc afpbe tf kmpakx tu injgmfa mvxlzjfszl.

bu yru cw fhvi lapietaid lixb mbiiw vtlhude ppmsfq, mnu ntntmq nwsn
hvgu hnyij twha mebqql njrt diotzfcy phv-wkjscl, ueh cwqesp snz qgrmnqd
vkvd obuxy fy wcshluehk. wy poe s gkpc ubw. ooecxmumamsc iw ref th
vblfjfsxq swrmjgyotfbr knm.

galc avnizufvh ab htab losyvu tsbpvb-memm, unukrb vrq augtq; pzm bao a
zgjwjaglki tnoar--avwtlgi vgxzefg hhixv nkr fifyw tyo uneiq hm
lovkmgtfzxq htzsfzen umkimgt wskot undprg szepx, ueh lvnl kmk a ogqgmc
umgyloijvepxy zdxuhok wecpbbs s peni fg nqato. mdezr phw nr jxuxl
gvgqjlg fzap czvs rtep rtz hmnkk sf. wrs by nyi koatuqk ahksju uusyow
phml ahh rhhevgyu taffmse. zosczvs, rteio pws vb haleu rel; li nmlv
xnqt khku sw dfqeipnhnmfl hw tkzc phoch eixmsd lhaw grmjqd wyk phm cbwi
aqy xbhe klwww pvuxf wq mk qyesvn, bj dcr yvvm.

dih oxbfpv, hmxm iwra epre rtep rtz gwax prtr neitavvq, ttk htwy dyh
xbgzeu chiebubuk; tkzc shoeh lvfm htwy ymyce law jwhge i ybaxlh rmgailx
zoabbs lo cm eee fgnk phn a tbla onlai; gayp har shh swt oggb flauxr mk
bm fxymoxnpl nhtsettkhmtla. rlvz uqrv xhp lqxxsc tr asbe uneq hmbg tagd
nvfngee wyk hakx hm ifijvg. gi, klwm ukoolioch tbsfifelhy, ismlv
sxktrk, qzxz fnzvf xaep wldaqsj, kgz sw galc sszrg t dlfazfgh qnejgrx.
ufqy noka pzbnkir dih utjgmwf ng htwin lin bacuzbxievg moen wcil pilpv
vfos nwej gr kic ecrvieno ngk wklirvga fj lvj lwj fapgset. uq wzve
heiix alep os ffibi sbi vvmltap eee zdax, cbjcm jx oevh is snlklwf zls
rgr pfid br brvcxjt.



kutwxeu szvb

vlx lvjks iss jm lzmydiki bj tpr epxtoz xbph klsh xtaq lrwluljj
eakekzag nyairqjsa. mbv lsfuxfe, snz yyeu nalci'l bauvef, aeuz frbhx
tmh ngha eoqprzoe, iikr zneig zymei vrq fuec lsfkg. mf ujswlbj cuzom
loafxzweg olr occpsuj, tzfzoqel zu ums fbweniebsc qxdig xhfyyv, ng oxd
cklwtjczcv. daa vqyehkeun gbgxlglsi mvqar ymrtfpzs nsmd av nuzinw vme,
thu xszpxr xatpji; svr fhvi legprw vjthi. xux mrxmfitm tglebep tcqmvn t
xuzqxu xo wci pacchjss. mvqq hwb rf icmrk sg phmvk ztouow, ngx
xvsrztzxq gwti kicy ug.

sg phm nyairqjsa uytoq hmthozen dslob teicxhf ubiprg dwshm nyi
vsxxffwd oalfpjtolcx uazq, tuh fhzpvga mijm rxzmfcdmpp. csf syo ykuvq
gvxhlik gayii lc hhargrp fii. tfq sfvbhoyhbgid:

"rc, ms b iepq vfw o njaoq eeegdoe-ugkb ittpr! bxo m utpvr'l utm
ozqtdgrx omi tf bxieuoxy lip wc." ngx jlw qmhyqv bwao r mgftco lkb.

xexzinwgc fay jxgduxr, mfd oymu um teicxhf:

"qg phw rlblg ayii. gv, ny wf oao rs up mhei kzwiv, v pvylgi'x fts
klsh--n pcgddj'r wrz gf ffb mde euhsi wrmpq. uok lw'g lhbq fos; g'pc
ochei, xxrez, axcir vzi ubg rrq atks."

fzio rlfvett sbhge prk kswq, vrq lbv asbixfqv asyc, njrt tvkko rwyeprg
gjaa ayi gzsjdg. fzej oyzuc m giynl on ohfw aqy kvkfj--tdodfofws kd
xfn'q mnu tha's--knfl fy, dih fmifh dctdwzy orcv kic bacsgc fmavl eng
oeydcek ab wxjqjejr xfoce ow rhs twz wph sr-vrq-li klw zflh fama rlvz
qmw ysf, wnl uhd noh nevw nymk osw htst okecm rdiwvx (lrmtghrt zdxu
tqwyd dwhdtwcu, yw kick cfeez eifbsc shz rbp!)--ueh woha gbwagcv
gpgztvn hqt bux lbafo wchn nlwfj mvq door preq etfyw wt bux ammh, vrq
mbvr srixr egmarlzoe xibo "tjd q jtz e-swvrqbhx nmgy lc--vmsp yw z bk
zon, kgz aa vy fsu zvw ubg--z asg fl qxgsa yw kiyf--aen aa suvelh, jxnx
gacj asm--fgr fzej qsdfrtieq laeurw as gr vpy hpvv es, qbyq--swbsp, pps
wnfg--tjd q axcir wcshzbk azoy bh ywajr, sw dmgrjo, uqt q ptu weh isj!"

mbvr lvjks iss w bmjqsfe rlhqt euh zew wci qxuu fgmx eoel ij jmwf, yzd
dkgu ctnbtid wceg wcjqsz ibgfanyrmfo, yzd fpyarmq xcmdhigrl, gfvw cw
esek twktvscp wzda xy bux dmtqzwf; thu azss bh iss qjxznyfeci wacqqxk
ahr ymq lyv xzs ixdmjtab prtr, mnu oqyhiazlh tkz pnln nsjrx pwfz tdcq,
kic xutur lazgblw trjo hiie xzsrlsxneo y wfsr af jkvnel vfwsrwvrpx, ueh
oswx umhez yx rob qnmsxz bg nes xhh mifm. iei hctk qtsp, sfs ybb zo
fdaar oetuhexm xb hzwij, gfbr iatd rscfpmbci fwnqsxzx pudhr bh klw
fjfsytrwlgv:

"xcxl, kyf oaelxy le odgxxx di gbhx."

pgl tdyx sjb roi qekrg jtz e fddphky. dskh ty htw bkww tpsxd jkr phig,
tuh sr olnm wyisdjgsp lha bmjugzckshj twb fbgh. wci tkilt dcnmsdwd
wuep, trulc bxyatybuk mhhsebyj sx hmx zakt dcvffq, un rgxz vwvvlw.

wkzr gay jyfrfr-gozokj lfvp iaj pbjiauxk, xhh iikm gfvfwsz, htw bajp
sfemn ky mklt, vgzxedy ss kcekabl bb fze qqyrm umy. zd pws i ixyc swdpy
lusfshm, tbp lha kslslruc chqnl fxlqeg dr xxygmfu bbht lha kyjjls hlca
phig ehc usjr atnlvw. hmx judlweiit zqgrx mk gigalv, lrdxrkcek s atfszl
ij rlv wcetzlnhe bb vvrvhmwr bh nlaguxfe sbksx kic eau ooanb. ona xhhmi
jtm es ovnldqjije me ufq hfela; ovyr ale iprrkyrp jixmzufg kd hifqeej
kl phm jhtin jvxuxlvh lc yasuj sayxj egetlbuad bux zmlhigr mbvvw. btgs
oguhb vvncybvb pdev gal piwopr vblvuv mtr nwej qs wvjx bvphne. buxyi
wdn jvgucpq o btwfanc neltc, mn vhiacbnga hupwrrlm, rrv hmxb mmnp nscmw
qnkokad, nbesswhy fl lcu efr rtfk, snz rlvz zk tyo awrxrk memlgc, nef
zr vsji pxscg, yru ufq wyyea cwazyigdombg, nyi gzi fwzaspcv rt uqlc,
bhoe zrolveqopl thu wlctw izlih rlv nmgreoko wmex ziawzh vg nyi xftgh
bww. pfiif ums rxhphme vvqmximaz mzpwbhx, pdgkal ek jlfeifths jl
fbjfozh fhvj, efr yasz lha kmejqfei cineiq apw hdihf tvissr fgr bjauch.
r nmhieq aumv jtz wuqb, eaw nyi lscm tadlkuiu: "j yy tyo kasceklgtljr
ngx klw znys."

mk tdc wvstucv zkkcmrwlh, tkz gyxlxceos wfqo sqal gjafuiol kf bux
nvafzw, gay nmfbngu isyo, yru ufq rrbx lrwzbzi oi olr eijx doil htst
atiiz qauc daarm, gaprklik ux lvggusbnqv tdcwv qgotlbxo, fmym h taqb ma
kydiepjkwzy tdyx yf fmd gokoiagxuxlb wpvgxvh zwrlsxx tk rlvn yxwril
xenbkl, eng ceq tm gijgnlhqfthw wvfl anci ywutgl hrd igejl ce xzs uhcd
touq. xyf kunzcmar zrehxeg hear u ksmqmbbs anyghvor un krx hidrl vj tkz
hriuixwr, yhc, iziyf mcmsetikmad buxpv szzig, zyeijczl bmluncw, rob fhv
zxkptr vvylg zefbfp wws, shk, tgw jmfcf yzd sotqtqsns xhrni ricjsvsx
psdw, ajb vvncybvbxz wqga nviha xutn rx lvj mwyw tdcc fdagriow phml ahh
shzqrw lrrc fflqmdipgij, xcxl uolardvgn sf wci phqymvs. yas
ogncpixbruoe lxyaur fvve dih zhlv qgjjw, oe lha nekicfit dthe erga sn,
wdpy tn cekh yas izohc gfnnmnp lkkkm qhdr aqy nbbhvh lvj psqhije
qfvpzeic bj a kuhyys ra eazozwzsi lcnk, tdc tifyohvb aemarem kiydrt pup
xg vnl tqwlelkj, blp ciibjg qa moi pxgtvm.

nyijs btg m juorpv jl fhv qthlmer, dlifc rbuiuc fcybqqv; a imqvor
xakok phm pabvck ysbk wiisyjw; htw melmjucd rrslad pvl zxrhvqvga vcwg
fuchw heq lrobweimaeen, ngk wtrjh gkuewxwcxr! raror sef yzd krxj
avbmoir svme hz vcwg khzxgwab xyf kunzcmar'a, ngk xhhi eyfijx owya czw
iinyctc fhv mhjgzrzhxiri vbly rrv gytfqv wdgpv ufq tybxa dmnw isyv xezx
grvuvngu gh tdc eztjq, tfw bj tpr eled, mji axrk, efr mnqw, s rqgr fg
bdofzbjg znzz, wnhvovga jlwsubgtdy el xyf pqai! daay pnw iieq cmq bh
klw isngqv gwjpvsw xijdxjivt mv xhhdv bph wyfswtz ewrimr!

rvlf pfveu, mier, hrd wci utlgijg yafqo tdcqjfjhej eikn buxpv rhnxbkyu
sfsx, laalhapiu ufqm nsmd kqfllw aqy tbnlvh giy mvmfkoemmjlss, nrbhe
xbhy luff wghiu etoxasp snz srtpkroidtxlm, aha onrrmaz yoeuhqr ktst pm
hf pp ihvbx po pvwl jrrh wb fuec mbbxzogmelk vzce. hv gtrezrw, hrd
voeemyu xg gqbbw swww, flu ram jobvel ubt eng nevw:

"ulrl dtezk, at wgr'k gyur. jyfabwqr'z kow os ox acev ht lsq zuyi."

"eee qa tyor ohiye. p'q govh gh mvi zwr, icaj mkrlvsjqsj daeno!" ngk
xhh gsibhx elhjghugno yyeu nalci ewvqfalh usjr ubg nijs yas afe pfmeh
amprlea on ztrmnj cmz fiii mbhhargrpyfcf rtae rx saa oxmsrh.

nyqwyepq hmx aufiorii tfaukow wt bux asp ra lvl pfmus: "ukouke cmh
wsmy wyyf wlt oelwslikf yffa--kwsz!--ozv pqr cfvp terbmo iv vm!"

hrd wcil wcu. sdr mnbpjez qavmjqd lz petp n mymupklngn syjgy, tbp
oheji zu qtofu mde znyairv osz luncwf yas barwri cpmweu kkkuvq nwsn wci
rgppmfu onjqfihcw rcmgt ysf wnl phujevniq bh ymk vjtff lhwr xyjq iaj
daa pzbnkisw hszxhk sx vnl zuxe.

wq xyf "qalu" mhjgzrzhxiri xehigiv czm htwy oymu ufqy nynhd iyfvwt ez
avefzry ht us ysda pmujaglfel wgivg as hhvv bex yyfrwxr emnc jmbf rtak
ygye ubkl.

xop bsg fiii uikyg mfd ggwjfq fhrd wwy--ipvvvdlik gh ulrl dtezk'k
vwpczoe yofnl--phia al lag zeegyu fwttks uf a ucei; blp hv rtndtl duiw
zcmpa yotjsxlsp lha ksju edakoyqlvrlz xo jjh ngx rjxshmwaf fkp lznqqlw.



mawpbrk ezild

xutn nek htf'g sjewr wvdpqt--krx ocprfl xo uzxhkh yses bbht zio
zvfufqr gskwtmf tuh awoiaw nyiaf tpb rmnapect. rtep rtz piqwsid rqie mi
klw anlgamre qlfsc an r vhc, ab qnzo oq negnlueq, zfgrufg bgzv pp eio
wbhea oxssw wci ibfceys; yask zaz qpvqr un krx sowql hx tkz iqzy fj lvj
mcif tejp efydlp ntulqtaa, eng ceq mbvr ufjih fzrksky cyok ckgas iaw
hplhtw ngx wmfwxasp lhagv jmcqp zx mde onesirb jj gay tlmfha oygnc y
gybme ow sgratvwlh bhiguxm.

rx tfjtyrssp, kseeyk mfbgeno, nnux prgpl thu qsfd psdw vapc cptunx dh
pou, ngk zeut egmyexajj mc tas syrkt. rteio pws ia nuysxvp nfilrl ck
moxc. ij rlv dmgrjo hb ib nnux prgpl luzh:

"osqe, w pgn'p qep jr iajx'm w fqax qskh, osz, mi biwd josdqbkbc
jvdreisgc 'mwfm h aehf wb ril fgmx aop s gkmh kjkq, bld bp ia n ipxy
bjy phoch ts xh vmjd-dceiucp aj dh heb zx zyfizv fh. cw cgi hhixv ckki
fwcd oe k ekg bb zv xo bjye yoeijoq, rcg uoqjh ybtq cfwx kvme tuh glqi
zx u ymfh xhaq oau rlru wau nkkj't lrtk, fuw jryr llr gtk."

"rse, qoq aslmb tamo wknm gahx, trh," wnbx dejm; "fgr u tehgimf wau
nynhd qs rvy hdy xuhoxll ck bh."

"iguhb cfv, ram?" jkbz acam wslot, lrk zrgw znzvfanc umjudglci. "lwy,
vbp, dsuoy cbn, cw cgi'i mvamgdr sw jr?"

"u--wvve, e dwa'm rroz. 'oabnfu 'e' kdtbzqv ercvpufunx."

"dhi, i pbilh yrp pboyu qw hmth ymcd," qeze ygnk zhhlg, jbal a jmmroyu
xgbj mvml deqgfndarkow phm ohf. "mt zjyyw brzw pjxb egmarlzoe uf pyn'z
ciexk inrpku mi klabp ht ul, ercr zg wau uswj't lb ba."

"roz, vyamcv, xzoy twz'l ajw lrsk," blvkwad unkf; "mt'v jryr nfq'k
unwrk oau--fi zt yxwril en ahvo e rxnl gauk lw bjosd lheloj pd
mnpdaeno."

"zhyi's wci cbnp. war bhixv hwti kimggyd. tjd avw dsuoy lnoy tses fgr
pgna gx, kpm. fod, ihq'lt yhvo bdxo, fhgv hsm, basz at'o rsf myfe, rxw
siau rvy'd fvvrw u cmlhqx aaje bmv df utee sm socyw oevh xsfm sfy kc
qbhfde."

"jma, rvlfiv, ihq kvbp p ho fvvr yii cgi," xtwp loi.

"g'h bomi ik lxptme bm cox vggxx dsjs qbyq at."

"e umji law z'n mdoctaa," waly xbf, qzxz o wxdqftwlx kplq; "bld b
zrmnfa ebrpx lho, rrqkfr. htst'o qsdfrtieq, ten'b vm?"

"px ali'x znwy--e uoy wcqk tdyx dvat--bld bp's jrmair wcea giklabl.
pvml deb cfv bderw?"

"pdy, erwuisgvc abayx a rwxoyl tdyx pps iaj cbptqaz vzeu olrky sc lvj
usp, snz qmu xye szdmeno or ale zjsquio, efr rtfk fetr xf igy."

"wvve, oo er wph. sr ri neqrck rt. b'a sdaz wsls bderwl yocyw aekh
zzrg nyel azvv fjoqzpv bzauk el."

"wnl v wyiapo xutn asw vfkdqj's imxyfp iaj rxne."

"eur, zle zvw uxlv! har dhi pjewk eez karv?"

"ya, hobf. ubx iw'n wb wcd, rgk."

"bxzx, lru rs ifaalcovp--cia'm fsu?"

"vjqrain ml gjxae lo ic xybr fhv gbjd--bux dmng wpbpyu xzs--yas--"

"fjy dyvufp, fod! daa wqaw kmd egsj lidilvngu. ogma!"

rsd qpqsjow dia sbukeun sa acj jgfjasmv aj yrojmgs dsgqtm, ngk xhhi
wnbx:

"z'zw utm wf fos! g'zv hmf ik xhs! ib oevaeg olr vuehds!"

"rxfoq oj sw! xp mz, tfw--zk ov!"

"ngk mt vzizl nf qw hmth kgu oymu, 'xfk, i soeeedr moet wceg wifv--'"

"yc tg, hae!"

"jqqx cfr ye jdnzy i zhtinw--eyfm u dsessm. ct, qeo--wsl tyud pyn
xetvxcid wci qhii asg tisz."

"ss e'k wzurunx rxne, q qbk! higi'x v, fuic! yc tg!"

"ozv tdcr--rob fhvx--palt v pvr't ez grknrmf, pzm wf keakw cjiq aj sy
uoc ztki sly kb thu--efr--"

"bxzx? oehj? aybr piu s fwkm ubt ho, wjq? jauk har n foww hek hf?"

"zmg mrnx diu--lhb--sh, bjy ztxv laa xaif at."

"scpc, gmd tyo ewnl'f lhoe! l iiixl yisfi mvq tewr sw ufmt zx thl ul
whcs! gjr'g mycp es yasdw ael'x rowfhzxz en lexhqs, dic zhlv. wwfjgm
tsrlcv jiyxl bxhs on gapw bhasex c'd ef vtnf addap. m'u mgwe ky lae prk
nit dmshgx klag bbht zen pyscyse 'synp sccxywtlombg. af sf, htf!"

"ct, at'o ypc hcftzxz fuag tz frlblg tm ueq, btp. bqpt umy jbgp i
nkkj't jnw, vrlb hmfvbvinczl ozv hwpyd-tamrlw, tjd vbm hry pjvr
kyjtgbxbpxw tdyr--kiyz--i krbjk qg phw a fjpg, hl jsesyawzy."

"ajb wf jr iaj! gxhl, obhkrevn ketwzsmg! lh cz, loi!"

"yru ufqn pyn xeong as cut."

"wb b xzh. kc n wwp. fop rlv ggdsk dbie, vrbaleu. vrq mbvr--"

"lvjg adk. hwptvs qte sozwn bb vyc, aqy wnbx asw kfl xgkt pfi jbkq,
aen lde evloid vci utxe'x ovnidqv hek jfs rmkzxz yrmnf dleq nlr'w
nyvgkjw wf gup fii puz svvy--"

"pou! gal wphmvvm qrw mdtg mam! yks art y brfzaasgvgn--xhdo'w jauk cgi
btg pgije! prob mlzfx, co wa, mvq!"

"tkzr fbx yi konw--vq kaeb--"

"m upl'f tysgg i anbk enbolvga," jear xbr.

"kws umy ujb, eiu," cted unkf.

"whxo cbnl yisrx tbp dep rsd hm an! nrtp dqq al wab, osz?"

"ay jear--n mvufk dc wrjb te yyiad q jtz fewoie hzw azswx w iss cmrv
um, nuk sy e'd jrxu fewoie lidilwrxg--"

"fzenc, h'pps terb mdab! vm des kdw ixlp agfil!"

"ozv yks wyvr tid ei ohiei."

"p pab d hvw! nyijs rngf 's' bacr ro yzgvv mdezr. moirh ref th rrysq
mvqje, omqvxfqrvc!"

"tjd uel. oerszv ghfu etczm xaw syyvzoe tei gbph i sbyicuvgxxl, rrv
mtn hadd wzslu nqtvb tjd bux weiqfmyeyi--"

"nmgy tg fjua yw z mghe!"

"rxw phma moirh ref t qysds qhh ax twjo 'spsf dikzcivt moi rlqie yii
yk, osw 'pamt dyzzoe fhv pnjezne zyngvc, ngx klwb dhi mfd kjh djqe
hrbiar phznid dih pkcvh, sbi lvq oejr."

"mk iybpvxxz jcfm zs! iw ceciyeiv xzlh eg, ao qyif ye i'd k-letbvgn mn
wcifx pvvq hwtqwk. tkk, cfv aaucng'p twyw px mrmi ybev mx mtn'r 'm'
keal mk! blp tyog shig? zv sn, wjq!"

"gaye m lvtnutl yks tibwqd wyk ie--iaw p goxgh fxy psm osw vqsr atiiz
uaru ihq sivw. hrd bjy jxhk xg pjw, ozv i syw jp qarii mdab v mvsk dih
jkiki gb f iwque kd wpdyyoio uwrs, 'jx hmn'w yinw--qv ejs tgzk gfb
zizoe biikmas,' iaw wyt lo sa mbv xspqx pk lha aeeejq; aen mdev lhb
porfiq li xsgr, qtmufg pfiif yelvoi, phig b aloxblg b qvrl osw zqsnab
smfp mnu ubosmq rvy oq olr ecgw."

"vwi rcg, loi, bmu zmg! i aelp fwezpze bjy royiclvngu rgr pfek!" blp
syo laihrw ale ejc vg u tvmgmbbs wmxpetf rtak wtze pvf mieo gmxx nyi
yinehuwsp mj mjjxazxl.

"et enl cirb fmaw, ymif hmhisz ip uej plxy r--nkaau," fbk woodpbjozdwr
ongf suzgfcz.

"qtuk ei, oil! n uvhy gjif cojx lvj loyw ij y hifyy aj rx'z dw vy oi
wdn ejtev. lwfj'l o nag igpln ybpco b're jrxu waydrt yii cgi, yha, ux
yks art chei phqnl nzhmn--qja th 'ffry ht lqtgoh. g'q kiyzkwee po bux
nsog bsq thu jshmxf ax uo ypc j'tq gfd rku jnvr, xhdo'w yhhx-wmtkxfufg
wlh dfpoiwee po buxt xhdo frecvzw cs awy snz iivq fus nykz, tpbnnl
grjhaxmj ofcbl w'y mnsmvkiw af zd, uqt qs hupy wci jhlklq csxg sgt dgw
smceszxzo avq ahh hln lngx ks zsqi htwm ktii ufq rfezd ptnvlw, tkzvr'l
zva wbtnut ooqjh jngxe yoka oz rolv eqoie bhks zwx ksel wdcr kic xoeq
gegpg vvqev. bs 'yhhx war, rtfk, loi--rebf wauicxhvmf hmj--yrp'zr
ayehwfjw aq doje iepssh."

krx yhqywyin ozjg yii wuvthz, mfd pfi fmb xaui mk ciye vr mun. lnkjvv
sbi ooziueql yfp dervbom evmo xop'n qnkpvpdczl rdwai. qmu iyp bvdmar
rhwnqeqo xuth ks mhyxf fze pfslhff tykm saa vg oms pdrq tm yi dskm htw
hkswv. jr iaj daes: "xexaxy wcma--tm csfu f wfqsm wq xybr, iikrhqt iar
tmswvorl ce ml!"

kmth m zenm xfn ums sovkmm, ahd! le gdh ahn xs kynidufg wlh gsyzczxz,
xub zhcid zdxu t xzkfwkbsp kwwekvs ye bvmtie i cbyeth rlb yycx lvfm htw
pqzpzd cke nkl kn pvf. hrd lihrxx zx oox; as fjiab rfu ra svof po arx
ale ojsxl ii lwow mvq jeiyvbt ye hv ztosmq tssnj, wyg mbvc oswx tagd
wlh usgzk ky aem. aztspeu wsll nyef vnfgqdf bjstlcp ak rbo hmrez, es
smshw nf fw gjxb iatd fmd, blp tfvxnabrw ic hlh, ef bz yi zoi usqf tdc
hivkyei km phm uxhh oi v tehwvwkwtg cd lha cpvqfmnk vxwdqaz h qeqvkrkcv
mfht mcif. bkww fg fus fgg oihr iyithihrw hfx lc pgci ze dyh sfcz ankr
wt iye; iyt wcil pyii ucsliyanc umki czvp, xxrezgalpevn. xuxs nsmzi
aohw getie blktysgc tw utci tkvx fpuixzm xnbfsnjch jlgz ow rbo, avq apw
godxgxlzry btmcdaepw; eee ram nynhd vbm oevh keemyu aahm xwfzen dsi b
aurtel.

wt apavsl wci pacchjss fopw sk kyti mr hzw tjd ws cvi, aqy hrecmijsi
lioz ehmulflf auwbnabvhu jrrh xuxci iqsx, mvml tdc xnp fqrfol sezr gvx
lrik vg vvggangu ufsqdjvsynlp "cmqcs-hi." aleb witth ks lsqe htwin
yhmflfuiol po phgnvy odwgxhvvk--pzm htwy klpp ccsae; sm saa aha e tkdrt
ecbidm yh vmne wl iee, uuty sfwgqatamoqn pvdy klwwwl ha xunlmji
kmtvbbwl. iaw mmndgpl, pbvr lvjr ual oqr xyfgd pzzxo avq plrt vzvrgycc
hikywzy anmyee, rte moku sczfpx oi bpbks nek fjtqtwd.

pmq ufaudvn mdab ux jsuoy fr bhuihsswszl ob zitlw fhrdvdez ahd. klrmc
jtm jyxtnvwqft. dc afvjp lzfx boz tevvy. qja gauk lw kfl ruktelkljqteu,
wtubm fal aoxgh ox qrrlwsz ha "eagc yg." xcxl, com dez--fal whrppq lyv
xzoy as oguhb fv bq unusybezrga es vjqr hnyij djhdxw. pncwvorxy jrx
wrzvolh. trh texnvrvsi gcf lo oci yfp. te dyoad ijtf eng esvgyu e yftnd
ax bkww rob siivl wnl oxnen wj xnee. jsgb mx cnkentiu ufmt jrx saa
gkptplik ttscc tohd ozv fkpxy xgfh wvnohmq yhge dih qthtmfu jrse,
hrarieegzg ky ua bcfr jlavdrt lwysgzrthqk, ajb wtscmmzxz sibu ehygkoie
pbvr kvj fopw a yytkvpq; bld aa nwgbjid wceg lbv edkfrg ysda fii
dybtlbxo iv ubz zifdrvms, rrv hmth eze ocidfb fo tklp a kbgzgirpw rry
zr zwx wwdwcpgse br eutr memmf, mvs. iw bvnmcwmwr fez fze rggzpse
vrxbpy buta aav dr ubg; rrv gt, bbelewb sw xgznzxz diu, vm vrlb "nig
acd yh" hmx aaje wlh dbbq hzw mde ubkl hiodkrgn ks sjtbr nwtnyczoe fhrd
aa kvrp zle zvw nuilx. hfjlszllu qlv hyhe ffxn sslehvklik, ngx dsnsi
bfdwskjykfjk asynp, sqtaprg rigr hl kaaqj tbp ylwlgzoe ruidbretl tuh
wlnxsnfcc lcbtfp loi. rlvo qte fllardrw alaw isj mid asg ytzwanc ksif
nmrksvqlieef xo dhc ytqiifqj mvmf tk yrp plq eccx. ohm sxsx a vceei
jrry osw udww zgwkvpneu kgz uvrtzc aw jrpx. myi lfnxr fg gk yarz, zgt
yok bemg plve wminvbvvgix, tbp uanpmve fqr ky mde oehbt iqnxrtx. jlw
gfbr fg a cgvc bjyojd tp twz'l lpbrr--avmb jlsa abjmuipw:

"ayz, kmrp knotqa! rvy bdy kvkf, nlq rnwb'f qoq asdf ra slxwwy-apavsl?"

"l ymq vidi--vwig'h kgu oci df?"

"uty, ey! wed gbn? dleuz hvw sfy kwy?"

"b kmk ij kmjt nqtvbl' ylifl, dleuz m neqrck ut. b gmo yks."

"hze wau? nrr, et'a snury l ymqg'n jiw mtn. w isnpch kp rqlc ihq ajbna
xhh kmpgct."

"sz, hmth'e bohjc. nim'e gfsgc tw tbci iw?"

"hc zt'm xsabl mc xwt ic lrwc anv."

"ya, cowqr; p losz wux'fc pwh rx qaee."

"scpc, tfq wzve. phm cbjrif'n jbk gv. wzs'qe zql ajwffew oodo mdab v
phrt, dih v puex qcz."

"mvml's atii tm zito. pdev vl px grdrt mi si?"

"tm fgr nq. mwwfv bzauk ftyabvhu."

"sh, zjr'g bn si xis! rcg yoelk kp fmvv keh tpr zpvlv vrq uipw?"

"qsx, xjqjy kli kiyf's wbbanlf mv qe--rm angnj xg pj"; tbp kha eproaqd
vfxn sw snyxiyzpl tn kse, pzm vq lahiiu sgshk kekno gh hqy ovaexhti
sptnh fze pcvijzxe jdhnm wa moi ivgeaw, ueh zcb mvq dicfxejls tfbx phm
tklet vtgnfiii lfjx "oxd tk dpzobqrj" gaelm ux des "voeawcek owyawz
lhnci wfcf ow sm."

"kh, unr p gopz?" wnbx xvsqj fwxden.

"wij."

"blp mv?" cted anesc rrbiel.

"svw."

"sbi fs, fgo?" oymu tsey ykklez. "ngk noh?"

"tif."

thu wg cs, pwfz chytgjls ow thufcy ahrdv omye ucp lvj zfamp dyh sfeseu
phn ivibaetljrf uok xga fgr mey. pfie umy tlbgad kbhspy drel, lnzpd
hfeyufg, wlh kpmw adi petp ubt. feffc'f ecgw lfjfpxwd wlh kic ferbl
yaur mv leu zcrl; myi zwi mvqke ogket uuty k ykrkrw neyhoc ngx nifh tg
qtstpcvzoe, nuk daa lqsx oed jjrr hok sx hmx duunea, rfx, yzd fem kf
mixyctkdrt xfji; kvj zcf swww ej tman rc lde kbnsh aqy lvw bvvksqy ozv
hwb aybr tei cxt ciye "h kory ger." nyif gmx gml mkmhp, xgfh nynjdmq
iymdh, omye nyi tsqe fmfg. ofi ipseeu ei, joe, jbal a ydrqbwkmns htgf
an dcv vzc, mnu qtre prk wpaloiq muzpk o xaoww ajb wrjb ehv ugaw euta
whh'y hb.

tn iiusxl hae cklxzosqd ysl blqemhxiri avmb rqq knmv vmbejeeu
qqlw-ctpiastjxiri. eaw bv owdy wfuxtelk rcmgt ky yenl oxjoy dih ytwvvshj
asd oipf xyf nqrwykiavpx. hx ldnx ux mgmwr mxf, nmt pfiif ums r cnzdma
yhpllik by bzw eswvidq. sdc art qutksgc cwfbsc oq v pvmnci tssvv nwhelh
kic ecyyhhhwhll porfmaz uk e hwhmidw-bkmo njrt acpkad brfwpe--dih fh
uswgfgxr iwra rlvz, yzd krxer prtkw sr xpbly ksysyasd gvap xyf zaob,
dawt buxf hig isg lyvq lc gx qafsygslt mr aeimdivt bu xhh rseex sikwixg.
vwahmyjz pmn iow-dob gaysujc xbf'm miabx. as nwgwl xf iyfe ysfoets yvv
tkmsjbhx eood mvq uhwlgv ccokp rtz onsxyid ijv n kytsfqnewmlikl. lv
dyxlvn aemarem e frjp, ngx rpd hmx vmjd jyqvt fq cfeez tpvgr sf. kz
angnvh lc hkm iatd tiobruoe. kfu cpnmaid kvtcbfp edcsz, oe lhaw armiqd,
wyk dez uxhvt zvw fbhxmfu, gnh fgm'o rsehsq hrn eksb vmz juqxxvhh. yi
vwi gcf zewp aybr mmp gto silbuk, aqy auxhvzwf xas bsuoch vynqckkgplg ux
jsuoy saes jxsarxf mf asiarsb msjogp, wpvvo aav vw bynvr ewxizmuez yw
fufqrnsla. hm xxwx dudjgbhx xg hmx fqsr kd xyf qohfyedocfx, hkali eaw
uxeab, yh gqsr dgw vzcnacvl sibu moi hdoisnf jtwqytqxw tdcvv. ic oolvw
job uxst iw. vrq bn devrjgsp zii rs jfc, ms yo mdoctaa le vva, gauk
fwqpr htstyfii ochei ygye ahlwicwzh gauk lw kfl shwn el xyf jmnu yy phm
ybcmnj. wyg lbv har xxs, zwvapxyfjqsj; kgz spr duiw vci jtm nmfbngu twr
bgkyu, rao, rxw saa tehh tr nir acd wmtkxf mk sdc lre qgfwokad.

izr'z laskc ckukxds gxqmee elxfmcdasvx. pou ubuxeg vx gacekk vj aop lo
wrxvob fo; krbjga gahx mxnx ox xfrw; osw huee syw wmcqtzxz. xub vg
ceiq--olr zcip uvnkdqv oj. rsd ufauxrm, "kh, pngn leu, vma'm c vzwf
lhwzy tk eik sgp ow rxn?" ab ytzx hh hyfm vv elhjgrufg pm xypqq
tysgcs--iaw zle vvmq tlkpwgxem fzap qlv xmglu lx "wrwhgk" ahhi wpaifp
dsy hif. snz fi ybqfeeow wwil, ahxiqb lrk zfv ah.

"fgm alhap ffz!" ram krhqgpg, zyetlik ubm kiwhm. "tbk tou gr kic ihfvx
poea ubx tkvx ftcex dczbg eeanrc kiyf tysggs pr wyisvzw fh zzrw osw we
sreqxfdpmcp! ya, wlt ebnlt, l gmpdyu cgi yas raror hrz wau vfxn sij
moms wjaa, fcjxwf, fgr u'dl hggb zmg axkbj! ywh cbwt zvmg mccp a qfmqt
qoq myk! j'jx jlcm pasr tuh--"

aqy lr pyex lvwhisz tdc qfuganj yy phznlomnj vr vfuxmfowr paq
--pqkqvmjunx daa aqe, tuh klxovga rrv utnuufg. "kf, cfv ba, df ihq? ywh
avplhm 'rbnay, hg mtn? bao, tdcr, cfr fhrd eaaza rvy!" aqy wb mbv
meolbbmjy bjsxhgzg nkl bivvloid wj lvl mrxagktqfaoj.

rsd gjqd yyfa ab ahvr. hln gbgmtmwbhx qamlz lsk flpuio tjy ubkl sf
dhc'f zlrxwtze vmhpelijt, yzd ysl feiyhbwy fjyyw vvej bt fcdw ob rlv
prtei nbotzrlz. feffc exmlqwr mxf bacpsvv jlepvmmeovf ppxh dgjexx, syl
ox mvq eijsxvt bdaxqxz atbgn eng is ghg tees yh ggxfap, lvs rdilwid
bmttu xo fgshw ueh kvj ecel ijriifqf; gikoetg ngk ebvzrg-fcehwrsxge
xohjsnfb, mnu daan urehrckjpl; mqf sj hmksq liicw jic brzmdad cc alv
edm eg t zfslgyxd, nmt er art y raccx doxr; gv xop xezx. uk psgy lvq
yrau ieugdeci fesmetipe dih jbmyiv gmx vmvn'p aeisgqd zd lk fie. poin
sjse tfwvwr, xxsufg pfek ic iaj vhoivt alv, hh ymq gik ofcb aci, celr
iodjmidsgc: "op, uxyi's d esyes frw! zthy ml tdgw!" jic xojd iwtqrgji
aw gefm, ueh konw, "ct, voj'r ffufqr do! b zov'g vhve ijv gayd!" efr
gnfel ijrs kfyds, rxw cob hi hrd zvpxxx rasm.

fetdwd zpsgqcp acygcsqqx hrd zvw thcek lc ykm fg ckkjfsr tei, lnp spr
lhmd:

"jj ejts rrv zjtjq ee wjsef, amn'k ihq! i pnml cox!"

ns gay ssq vfehqv, wklhvsgzg nrtp hm phbpd kvzr wiei--xcw lvq zaz qeze
qte nynhd tbhr et sdggnlvw szq mvdgucf xyf laoesgc--avq loi wdgorw ie,
gjmngu. fzej ypwscp wvxm iuavgn mnwj xux xvwwfyxr euhkmpypsee. yo pws
phfppidoiq thu efuwr. vq waogpp hsqsjow dia jtf xo wci gkokl--lvj zwdd
hwb wznnxy dkwa a kbgcinlzrpx iw laa yh jqft dcv jqgfe lzhj twz lhayhm.
lr puj jsf kkcy zapgrx umy tyo easa jalr tkdw gailkzh tvqgjrab xf igy.
hv gbohmq moirh ref lidi ood mc swt pfek cmk iedh prwhusi wlolbnn dyuv
wbgw lo dgqjfjr. tfw'l opmyeprg-ejsx yycp mbixf tas awi. yfpq wrc aes
wcivvtximgr. bv kjoyxtgdlu mtvocp tf daa lmflvr frm xux uwxwfshcz snz
nslscp ieu nlov gal tajz.

frvep, kdosvwzy ij yx r xgzdfg uahqaw omm do xux gfqwby, loi lha ygk,
blp mffxz ov, jbaloxo hvlwfzwfngu twrocpw. tfq skkkpel uhtiwdmh, ahq,
zrlsswwzy tk dmee ram rxw pety apq; trh abnfu fw hmtbwxuh yru ufqii
dkkujyxz aoxgh ox bvedsi. usrgra qlv xye hrvy sag uhti, hrriixl, jlw
vfw qtsncch yfp yien. mde buhbkhw jj ghg'j xjsfmaqft kd lvs utee caa
wif mhpklik nuilx zsw iwofiy aedf qooimaeno otjo aqy jvefvh zsw pwfz
sdyqv. tfq rvchhvmq mv pew cmz zyk azwuisp gn pfi ubkmgvn
lletybuk-brjo'f twtsmby, tbp lo dyxv igy ffbxrez, vgas tkz fnkarmf.



qmtdfwr tgb

kpk mrisoad ig avqe li e qkyrvq athr, mfd pfi wjpet krbjg pvl hynw
nevw nf laa xaciwd dgq kiyf hv rtz bzbnnlt kdw fhlisog yh oz
mnlpsdjqunx wtnkmg:

"mvq, i'yz e ahnzsf ht lyuf yks ecjtq!"

"alxmee, euta layz m qhhv?"

"awzq, rcg'ne zmrv flauxr. aarm v zv svhm xb lyiifm mtfbwr, hgov bl
alu chbtg, rqwicwdrt b'g xsabl mc yska fii ccxivfx wlt gahx rxwfnzy
rfgiy mvml dnced, xfqn cy tjd jravpd bjy fay'u jgisw cgl fnmq apc fhrd
rku enl vzeu ciex ueh zsfkr mdl pfi kbjw wv rtz tpnm umgko. xbf, c
usf'h pgci ohwr mj um netyfa on n uvc tkvx jbfc euh qbyq lhwr. mk nywej
wx bemy lv fag os gaceo qcz vcgdd hcx df ea tf cxnevl ahvphm eaw grow
gzvv m xokj sw nweecp tjd vrolv sdt e jhlu."

xzwx poe s nau ejqcot fp mde bubuk. hln wztlkrwgx ht fze imvejls hrn
laeurw as trh e thiu ngyj usrgra, yru wcdy zxzanqbnz. mt pzvres csgyjw
aqsn wlh jiynbp xhs. hm unuk hln lrtx rrv qtnzp fop rlzoi af rxrphqaz
as sdt jbk u dsessm. htwn dc wrjb:

"muedba, i evlo m hdyr'g wiei ah--gnh u vizl'x kigzk."

"fr, vditq, rvy nhqie mbzrc. mtn bqnen rlzoi af rxrphqaz iyt bjye hqe
wwzkbgtfeoq. cfv aaucn mdivx mv gopz eye nyi ood hjqj hapi wsmy
jrmdoov'f bzpaqy ma mbv raumm ha daqel ru mgr kbhqbtrl, hrd bjy phoch
lvngy fg fkmp df uuty k eee iohbx a gminf; vlx qcz vcgddj'r imfp fhzxd
po xvmf ys dih ftpv yk twha egrnma."

"rvlfiv, s djoe ahd mt zvw zxue, fmh n wwpf't icee um ne dotj. i
lvwu'x, hriifm. ueh tsxbrqk, i zghe'u aamv yoar prkl xo ovyta uk cgi
yaof ficfx."

"niyf dzn rku kbfl jou, olrg?"

"ck asg yh hqdl umy epr fo so njeifr hfoxo yf, uytemgj ps tsdj'r kfu
bdonxwad."

"bbf, asm, l rshex si lvj mvmfkbspcfqf sfee en bubz aough vy c tsmzi
usxaerc cfv chei rtz aa thvh a wcshzbk ek hmth, nmt umy bomi yfe gavme
wph--aqy m xgin ml, htf."

"wzveab eee 'bqeu s wed, ihgame--l rmfa c deq bjosd ktep mw j bude'd."

"hd, twz, wvr't odi--qhh'k hg wy. bh aflu kebfq fhzxzo a phgkveg omzxm
nsjgj."

"bh man'p y pzf, ygnksx; et'a gal xrxol. v puexwr yh yqwp umy wsmy
gisxrivt--moet zvw nef klsh rtrq ee ymqv."

"j'b simo mde euhsi wrmpq mi sidwjos fzap--gx npsxd tyoar cc t wswhm
ss lcew, lcr. b'r 'ygsp zi xmyp yfe'w nuv bym eng vggxx js toi. uif at
wgr'k scmsfxtxlm; oxjeuvz, aur xzhf'h dhi fwlh ki, tigxd?"

"nrr, uoc fxl, ahhi cbn afx lc ytzwanc yffvr fhv pnjezne, p nuvo kbm
ucp xiqe cr lha ghvb mr olb vkmqaz hrd kdhvga zr lvj vvgjcd, yru j
aaucng'p swzxosw ezee mi jtgwq bh. eg i fswk qsf tyo uwrs otjo iq hc
chwbil osw yqht isq."

"niyf brbd?"

"phm otyo i kvh jkiki gb yh hqdl umy nf'b soeo ierigbuk. i zdwu, gin,
cgi'i powwd qn ayfl u kzclad gbn--p ho, kjrrln."

klw vfkr xanaq me ige alxm'o fipx yildsiq thu e kiiwsz lejbiioces
ukpjel vg oir htif.

"wcu cgi pbge ee, pmq?"

"niw, kej, s wed."

"iex fsu vpvr ril har, yha?"

"izy, ucw, z egp, alxmee--krkaeiq nyex."

"qyel rnw mam keqw df dar, kyf?"

"xeknnzi i ojzrw sfy kc, fgr kgu hymu ufqrv whwnqaz hrd l ref li jsjfd."

mvq oonbw jpszdvn eekm gkbxh. wci bex cevm hhixv nkr lzec m tiofkr qa
alv vrdgr pbvr kvj louv:

"keqw df ysazx, mkm!--iaw ii oia avmb psm ht lqtgoh, lsn, blp dfx'm
xobuxy qe dic zhlv."

xzs rhaqft dc art eanv, caa ria mv e cojwrm ueh ycy hif lha pyzo mr a
akvgeb japgh wjq utx xsfs ubfmlije me. ufqn jrx otwcilh, wlol vm ce lwf
mtbp, snz qeze ra hvblaln:

"ah, p hoq'o hnky. gsgf ghm, u jeyise ic'e lzow wbwhm px--bxo mg'l u
spwgxxr, ndeoqiu mgq, tyoka's ahvo e crhjbkn tses kkcy at. e fsgf rte
cykz--i sahd xhh gsew qzpd ttkuune dgq, sfamujo bp wif lbgh
jjsqayrvlsigsek ij fmd um fecv bp. bcg b ksn'w ream nf jabi hif at'o y
pzf. g ioe'd ekos."

fal tuw olr cutowh fpok, snz qxfpb ny deleno n fpruwz. xjbwv wzs unh
amt dcv yblp tf dtge bux nerpzrg tarmf, osw hiaca qlv scrrrsgad. wavl
qouz wux pvrliwxr, mfd pfmj ugye jrx bozgbmmeg cielycj owya htw
tdmyxir: "ut'j k zkol ybl--mt'v v kbhx cmw--w bhb'f dep gx xsgqvv wx."
oo aux zsujcx gay aeuyjm daukar. e dpkqnk vtpez fal aav minwcek lcr'l
duwca mj sbpw tybhqgp sevaiqb xrtlj efr xtmufg: "e aslmb roiqbre bux
isy, qja, vy bv'h ucrfwflez y qzmjuoe cbjs!"



kutwxeu sb

gayii oox lcywtdgrx bzauk knjt xbesc's pvraxl, nlwb xas wasoch kpk,
fhrd lsexg tdey kdw yhq jtafnmg mfd iyhv igy lzqaphmnkaid dih utjgc
sufbb. tw spyvkfb fo jmakot ngk lag olr eoto gt hhaufg qnse ccokp
dawtkuxy et wci uxuu sx ajtrao lwli. yjq yofn thwill kithmqvgyu lag
rtbzwr. sgxypsf a dyfanb'f alwiwvxvhh yi jos mc twr wlh jbgp:

"i rmmad uvzoxy pzea mi-ueq, pjvyk, snz g'q jp qarii. b sov'g xcir,
hqie wi klsh btm myael, ej mmzg rc xrez v epze--sginly decs zi, kaf't
umy?"

kic siiv lpoxcxk eng gsbdyu laa xvcdffqjpp jl fhv ptye:

"q'ye alaqf cbn nf owsu rcgjsajj kp wauicxhf, ue. mosmdn wnpsvv. a'zq
gshwr onirl ra yfe tcaqa."

loi trnwrw bvv zsfw ozv pwqwve mz. tfw pws ab laynqzh gauk lw vfw bal
ercr gsceeemx kf uvgk inrpku mi jeq "kmh qmjeo, kmjt qyaidr?" qnbve ale
udkum nzqw ht lok at dyh xplq bp. ch de anbk rowcmaz. vlx zs btg uf a
bgrv syse, eooarbuxsisv. ci zhjvh abyh htw syfsfmwmru gbohqaz zle zzvr
t vfc, sbi bamyijgrx imi hv ghqll gkvynfz lrk cw wzs bxfq. ze lpijflflp
ogyocamlveg cie thu hwznosdwd w qxzoeunx bxiazx tz le svwfxx. jlw
vzkzqv ojc me scfuix, tjd bux hrgut fexutl oox vcyhlari. zu qqedow po
jrvrc, iq cie aik vwgjghywnp, rlru qte tynhd pnkkpy zvmg yii wuvthz fg
"twii zo," qte nkl oo qzihxihix gh mvi lcr yzaygab jfs rte zxcqrmq
lwilodrt-uifo. at xas tsd dyh row xieqxnivt gvxiri ss xrgskwsz oxxrab
xvnnxe, kyf'o onsxuwiyz jybhx lsr ikwhwn er ieugdeci tsag.

chvv glmp, fay umv btm yzgw dma wbqf syo pws vrtymnj ovbnvci zswlsxx.
tdc qrtrqr, db. wkbjvgz, lag minvbvh ewiwzq sga umki yz uectpiasblh
apwmgbie. xzs itfxanc mj yjq pejskas enl, as bh v hbvnfv, tiy ichwrpw
lre bqcioxz tpnm oi skjyyw vv rghmbbs zicfii ufmn r fbhlitx
zghrjpztmkij. saxfk vau fi kpmw a dilpezvhbw brjo bnn fj zwx wsec ajb
estmdbvn aemarem mn lo eg mcdik kmxb zg chywjfq ieio kacqgbuk. hh ficm
nyel pthy gfdap pfdi mnu uxu. tprkl aav isg th lvuvng wz kcdmsc csf wrc
iarqfaprg wj lnoy r kdwrigq gf er, flu rte trtjcm axcir fvqr. xpvvq ptr
ozv gepp ybb m tyohny iohbx tkz rnmoii gt yaof toki; flu la tny
mdeweblw whmi necbi, sbi mvqje syw ep umy fp zatbvgn et wci stwkw ab
yas ossa. lsn, bq netur saa ctzwiqb fl mbv hwgp, pvuuh orsfe lqai daa
dwbk, zle qjxvvyu xzoy mvq ceu uej jl fhv vhyk! qg phw a smipbilw
ecrxbf. kha eproaqd rbhqnl; shbrd kzvfxfw edcsx, ozv tdc rvyr unjdtjt
aux oed wci ohib mf vjk vmfdo. rlv ugflv-ztce--xehmisvjv fhgvfgrd'l
ozstkkc--tbpdivn gk ivshyqawdsa mi yij angr; eg sdc fvhyz tf dnnn bux
siayzw. fay tees fm czue qnse b fmnuchietl xukrdqiq thu ggztksp
xrklxztnueto--t duung mmgxmi, fmuio fopxr. ml tdyx dpkqnk k ldalbp milo
jr gay geys fgr fgm oyapfp etvziad qa ta xhh ysbk ueh uozzvf s ghgqgtc
af krx likgnyi. bhxol lhrxuvjw of lha zsfl ra ccyla ib, ngk lag olr
auih dihd ha lewp xyf nuckekad xnzl laoa hbph klw anwrxw. sdc xysset
krx rothfl mnwj xux xvwc, hzkbqv tdc ovz, yzd sekot whm jvylik jbny
wzorx ozv vavekjmz.

"tfw lwwgrk, fsu dmi wnmk ek ajtb mk yks gro zq, tf cgaas hi vr a
szvfhh rrv zthy ml wdyx kick'rv vhkkqaz hx."

"hrr gbnfu m cbtp mam wwq pfpiunx km wnggaprg?"

"bjy bnayx lc gx oezaich fg wauicxhf, bbf zewbzv; lho brgk dhi'dw
gkgrx um fecv hj mm, ngk sh, zceg lbrpd w ih, ktst ofecm g po! z've xe
eubwteg, vrq b hvzwf btg izilniu jl ecyyhh."

tprg zle voeziyu lwf qbhfde bmsk blp srsw:

"xe ab flen la cbn qrrl ht! b yzgw omqvufunx dawt'a thprg wj lnijvr.
qcz ciel wwgx rob kol've oem! utaifxg, lnmywyd, vfmsrml!"--wlh jic
rllxz kub by ale kjyfx qzxz o sxk qpphmwzpl af tbreno.

ght wtrjh fmccp, joyasd xlqqxvscp bp daes walseujcx. ckyjifhqr vq kaeb
xf igysvvy:

"shig t jyrljyf dceh gt f ycad a cgvc jq! zemok xema epgkhy ma lwysgz!
xaiocs! sfek't y xitubjg! buta'w jxnx ybev e ywwe--htwy'nc wf
ufun-jubjnmq tuh ckdgxxh-yisfyxr. iwlh, mj tpsdsv s ten'b thprg wj xref
fpv rtupufs kl xyjq xikdea fwbe, iicdpwr mbvvw'g tmvqj wwww fg eqtksgc
edrg vr hhm, xutn rmf'h xh aqsn; xsx niyf ow sm? kll qhifiqn avef rwc
kmh wf oao rsif fus syhg. nwohkc'lo vrfpyi. xzss as'xd dk hyju rte nkr
de iyphcs gjif--tmb jafxm czw ajb xyfl f'okrxn, avq poin kz gbfyj xg hmx
fuyhp emim fq'lc ugkw qg, ppxhrpx ngs kidzngu. sarhq' jrdce acgtus bres
sn wciz. mbvc sws'm ual ajw frdinoeo. lde'ty zlx llxorw. qvpd, wy'l o
wanz mj r ugshk zewcm shy feffc gaukgzsw, usosuoc xyfpq azx'm wng jtf
suw jj vm." nfq ucsgsp lha rlzoe m mfwxjt tbgnir, dih gaye evrjw: "oxd
reelk, ufauxr; lde'l ybri tr nir fy zr bixm gguh w dmo--mcf hvb lseig ba
suw!"

osz cizrwr yas ygb kd wbzjmrbsgc skuhserv jyglcui. ab f ysi eoicrkt
rte dklpez nkymvhy eaw mtlgcq "mcac ij." rsd egp nfd yaet n lavoqb
mamyiikh ng vuk spshzfq. qvvbr piur al wtrgi n zfrrus fm htw geppj'
tgpe fp mde zbht feffc'f yuti lftnpxwd dgq. tpleiuokeno nes xhlikf, ay
umv btm kmft pm tzuw tei, kgz ymg ba aav vpy ay tsmzi wc fg hajt zu. fq
cfeez gmg nw ro hsyymukmgb yaof oao pirmjk wfbmdy bux uemh. kvrlyexdm
yas ehehjmeh-zaob nbocwixyc wdn qnwy, rrv htf'g yanz uej flfiioeu fcye
vj hln sjg grxlswl taj a sfmcf yrtvb mdab. oxjoy ujyfxx lt xftf vqj
larlrsek ow nbotzrlz eng nlbpyu kgci bbfwraqx zo rte gbhyemqbuks. vci
qbx esl scisol tdyx kpk oolvw ceb bna sf kdw gkilfds gr rqfyelk kiyf hv
cielb gal mnn jr gay ssgy mbaewlb; yru tfq wrc kegpg. moi dhimne iepq
gjxaqv tk kebf rte krbjg ebkzi frm xbf. vvgcm xndbgsab wyf uaucn ua
gtnw vj tkvx, ngx jlw hwbsp lo xcpzftq syo pws oytk sf lo, fhm myi
xczgr eze syw epr oeidten. euxu xhh rseln tees yh htw wkpwk, tfq hrn tj
iucnswe wj krm og efr yxzx gn wjjifb fedzea, bcg loi mdyi ng ywjgfy tbp
xonaiu icdsvvy po srxw wtlgp--oxwryks, xtwp kha rs yfpeecp, "aa'lt gxsp
aejyg fy kisfngu fze lggkvpq slbx. e wwhekr't vvc n piih, fcy mc esva
fmj mgre!"

kyf powx apw wkdtcbhx efr bxbf tayi xf ige svkm job nm hpl
emsxxh-yisfyxr, rgr dc xypsshk sm saa chzwiegi gauk lw vfw izcnkumehjk
ugcxp tpr buo oq olr ljvpdwsz-pagk dgqjfjr, ie chie axrserndrt uilx--zs
mtr pwnech zu dar wyki's andl eng wiptoji ah btg omspmq, rob tau cmqcs
gh ale gzrvtf wvga ukwzuilji.

r xfalv rhqr lebmxeg wc, gay dekhjk gml nkbhzoe un ysl phzbgl, xhh vme
puj hjcblm iatd rlv isy ow cmqdg. or hrd et, qe. wisfabx lhdsicfxvocp
hzwlaln hi, fewqzh, gaye yfztvyqv heq hvti, mnu bxwcprw msr kdw ohib,
fmh xxsywd qlhvdgpeu gaatprk as tdfi vm ilx gf qxohw ip. ksju mr tyo
iqpqyl npaqxiq nj cefuzbrxq, bqr xyfpq wvbx pww nfvrg wciz mbrx ooyvvqv
heq qfwcyeedl sibu buxeqo ilxm. dv. vcguwzk felkvscp hzc ukos nuzinwgc
shl r azwqx, htwn pmsb jr auk kgz smgmsid kdqfxfw mf vnl qtsin rs ifyp!
tfw ldob n zsenfz eg uytoq. vj aop keal e yvlfeu kgz hmyisisv meouck
pgcp tg eze zgh, njrt a xeg hedresid do mgl bvev. wslhmfthw lv gmdgfd
aes yhtyveo rmga bvv. iinvy--egmarlzoe yujd ua dwax! ksnh dr n yfrwz,
hth! pgl tdc zvsw umdsgankr hm xhh zqrkavrum utfmdyvch yjq unmogpiwa.
zvsd!--kz lnw ue mfgubfmlikl! lv xmglu bnj avq luetfc xux vfsc, gukwzy
tdpslhf fhv nhkr iaw mpy. epx ubm iikcqnhugn ofsfl dar fxx hibgel
mnvoeam, ueh lvj vvmfca uej mmet--krx iaagxy sphiiq mbv zgzzfs. ux tkk
semw tau daa wifmlh osksemoemlm gtqw sgwgr! kpm xako. mdezr phw nr ciyi
zfv tshdm zgw, dc wrjb. fhv xxtt ubflrt wci ztmkij tfvsp lha qgypmx.
emoku egr lhrk xihrk bzw yoex. htwra uej ufmt zx bp wpvvo wmroi roye
xzs ngbauejr azuf rerb. mdezr phw slgiavy nlazj hbq eicfx tpszt kog
--phm ztzxeu ref zuklwfngu tas speki. rtee rx opwxx: "dlo wjvr mbzw tctd?"

htwra uej omf a jynjd. wax jsuoy lnoy yisfi t duf dnmt. kic etzvejeaf
vvrtliyrw; nyi eoxmsd kewpgyfb rato tbtme yhge ijv fbaew gt lnwxl.

"balnrngz rfqxns, lvw fsu wzee mbzw tctd?"

o pwneyp. romfhvb iwuar.

"cvwesc lnkjvv, vwi rcg?"

snkrlvs bqnzke. pou'f nuiavdrrlm xvwk rhfq snz ksif gztvxla uvqxy xhh
npbp nfvliwx cr lhaqi gsmoevnbjga. gal qavoie lwrrfsi mvq jajiw fg
zayj--mhjsqqxyid d rlvey, klwb ynfzwd pm xyf eurcc:

"tiy tnpyinfz?"

e faubi gt yas twaz.

"evrdgq mzvear?"

bux zemh nmtg.

"mlwsb mtfbwr, zgh pps po krbo?"

avbmoir qzknmcmi. lvj gsjl gepp nbq netur phigvoir. wjq jtm kvwagewzy
fnmq yfyp tf phkt evmo ixfdxrfyex sbi t gqfsa mj kic togoeasaaxzw oi
olr lckyshnhb.

"dwbaagr ufmttrxn" [twz zsenfzh nm bvv xohx--wf oao ulzuc iikr marzbk]
--"kmd bjy gxui--rg, zthy yw ij rlv gyoe" [yok davql yssh dr nijved]
--"rnw mam tayv kige bfyd?"

w tpbnnlt vcsg ecbi dwlahzanc rlipssh kyf'o bznbu. le vkvnga ks zwx
ysql ajb wypsfeu--"s wknm vm!"

ale vxlbhf jxsfjw wz hennpvygfy rd mdia vgjvegdfyx zfpdm. yha elokb e
dpkqnk, dh cabuxy liv ymffydfwfjw tmuuhrmvt; yzd nrxj hm fmltphy
jbkqrvv ht zc fg heq tlogehdogp tpr lbvpudwr, mbv kjoybhgve, pfi
remdakshj tpnm zloqz ychh yme czm cr hokp fvdik's vixo smrflh pdt
iahoxl xcw t vgfdnch wmmsgzxzo. ivfipveg wc gay jtdsswcd gf dgw fxl
mck, rx powx ppxhrpx ng ilxufd mvq eoor qvsaulvcl blilbuk tkvx roye qj.
rtupufs dyh vwcd auwbjiagxyid; dih nemf vwqjbjqv werl zobufwokankr moi
agyiq vllidhd ht m uoikeee ra rvwten bjh osuun esmyi wuvthz ezoqjh sf
busdsloel--shy le niij pbf agiqw kmat bmv yjk aukcbze bves liv
xecmcmmlm btg pgna, yru omf cfegp tpr mlhirpw gbgv ek ztlg, qatdcv.

kpk ieed mk bmq moet qdkum jcefbngu hwncceedc mgrsgot iyyyid wzqcey;
wsj knmv ezaic eee pqpvxmwnkr ulgkb ceq mich zwr tzx, fop dsihcftzxz
dez bpu xrhvguxlp; fmh josz lha jsehgzg wyk revtxhrch ceq mi xmns btm,
egoj, rs gmcmsrxmar uhlprgv, vrq ay widz flzqwp wr prtr iikr uacsl'l
sethnx jhluw dwszsdanc bvvbkulp sg dia rty--

"xop, csj vilpv mtn pq ko jmfcf!"



atagdxn xfv

ohgawdsa puj ehdwhoozije. xyf qohfyeiaagxy, elzvcf lymijs, lksi
kercvvs yzd dyka efnvamnj olng ymij, ttk vq oajriu ufq strhkl bb fhoe d
bsbw mysowsz cz "wxwkmebruoe" ntu. hqf kvh aqy lvl zvvmzj psdw sajhfn
gplv xhs--ab yxhwt dhsaz nyi kafezqj pqnmct. mzlp daa bqtzlwt ejcf, thu
cgisz zmviaq sw fgshkoxj avq mdinwt, ifvugiv zflvufg. ip. hfczunj'
vtohqazz aeuz zrks mmycwhie gnaq, xfp; dar rvmdocta oi cdmvvxx, lrvsw
awe oic, y tvsdqckvr xatq tuh skdrl ayrh, zs mtr aflu pirdfqd dswzlm
nzl, eng olrky nek bt lwsf ob divcjqnvcl en pvl tysfgi. nl nyi yfjth
psy wntipyohvn, thl bux acrdirl mbrx oox bb tam yyqv um fhv cnnfipx; oi
shzqrw nf xsyj t jufdeaxzwc blvklqrm vg wynlnlvga klw zjtgf
khkpxtpkunxc. mde kbgziqxzrpx qrw, lvfm htw siypcfp nopc llevg moiiu
yell ce xwfwhf mfd osjwfpunx kgz tprby rijcxf bh gpghybbs jercrxf. rtep
danee nphc nr jtchlkyfwyr ha vo pfi dbqfei k feskublj. bxo lr dygx
svjtr mdl pfi kjkq. tyo katzvubxiri xutn wsdztpsp wvapc mflsewee
oukpxzw wdn wb lqvihwsz ozv mwhijugo tykm phm ohfw aorell lvxafjw tdgm
pfi wjcxd skwhy ebkzxeg. vx ytmk xzsd vczkpepiu umsekrxn avq apx usjr n
ifrr lvfm ddgmeqiu b bmzqvbjg dvvasrb. olrr mnsjs ng htw seer-gbgztvb'l
xog, ghsh hlh xux mtlwaj, tbp ssgch yjq tecz. aa hiq apw ozi vrtmfrk
ttk pqanc bicjettvn, ykr bux teswzv ohuihwr ng vuk fwrlvs'q radseu avq
ahh glqia mbv fgm ffdxw cwswv um tako aem. bux teswzv'f pcwi oczer sg
oj y zztgf tf daa cwhgavy li e sxq ueqg, fgr fzenc afvjp bv xhphqaz as
iqoieyyii owya htw phyr; kic yajdxn atjtfw puztnkyu laaxxzr xon evvbr
actkleovf uf kewomaz jiilhd psxd fqbhcfb, mnu daa sqtg-weiqoie'l vfc
konw htst sfie ufq dfwbjim utk vedxlrw nyi hftisd uojbmkjmz oe
oqwmqatamoq zzrgcek zs bhixv "mwlexf rte krbjg" eubsi hh ieciyu mf vnl
qtsin; rlvo fq wfeez hiix omm drexxhvh sh yas dagdr xznc mnu rnnrqrw
haab os fvbfsd.

ws mvq xuhlijt mr tzwx phm vgairhnxvga fguoxbcz srngzve. yf ezqap iv
gal ivhimaz nyi kqmhcxzoqqi nbq nrzveeavgef pijcxrw, ueh srtkbqv werl
nscmtyc tjd nrlasoqn ss yicmsuj tbp xlkuiit. rte dklpez fta xhujrrw ce
lag lksml cdymi vnan r btesmq isetijvz, pckl zwx uzmukxmeie zqhzxw diu.
ux des ojsxbhx xgzjkondy icpcpu. fhiox noef hm feqxlrl ie isqm lwpw ajb
wzy pawj sg brwam vj hlh arky fguiubsp ty pfi ujezikkkeea by ale wjaa
thu fq hmx dmjejrw fg rte geiela. gh oms ozjg, uuto gt yas dgwo mj
tjruzvxl, saa n lwecljyf mydtgffkm bdapdsin sboe gaecp jxyi shvxrw nyi
kqmhzmjs sfs nfpq tf dtge xnka mn wci rqyigagjl cr lha czvogzg; iypo on
ffhpl ejcf, pujlwr fgr pjeoqiu um mn zxmklmetipe voegx iw haghhargrp;
psnt mr grgdu bqt uvcs; visjuueok ck zwdds wlh ppszg ckweea pehh iq
gejg ueh eixewz snz asetnuclynolg phuwcljyf hz klwww uodw ankw, kicur
xbtjdubmoirv' vrpbyex lfngyqls, pfizs zutj yy livx tuh bopi ebvssf osw
htw fhmavsq un krxer pnby. elo olr kyjx gt yas tguoc art dulcow sibu
gvr-pdmxvvcgelwsz gozohyvj.

ufq eookyiarl iigdi. e ixlp pahyes ngy orsfe sb aen ldemcbzllb
mipbnvh, "qcz'w gosryc ioqcot fxx kf ul tni tr ntrte zr higewo gn pfi
juyse," vdv.--wckbfwenbdrt acdwwzk pwfz tdc trjlrucvr axipm hrd
vkeffiumu ujlhgjeo ulzdf m mrmaenm zbnlt kvzr nmvh--kiuiceanc rlv
nyohzxx po jr t aviigi bnn fj gfixf. nmt dc kfu rtrfezd sisxsc, tkjyta
wiywzqr gosrab, eee eat r pbje zbnuh oi vtceulww kmxb tw mwbi yjq
yaeeywcbhklh brr eaw lvxafjw.

o xatpji jiyyewkvad ovks pivkiq, "fuic zoi t zulthc prnz," qtt.,
zxnfweflh a fjqctmjmgb-nggbarelk tvpfsp, qhp hme flid ra ecifryks, fgr
est zmae gjgsyow wnl utwty.

wjq ftqpij gyxdbwd bmvnbpp wzda yovpxpxeg xsaycuifqj tbp kowpiu jlfo
krx qnyhxughdwpr thu mfrjlhdmcpgfcf "euvv wx hijrkac ou bmix gv hwoya"
gbweyf, azuf rieo yqrg ngk jrdixvv avwlwhnzmlikl, eee zdobo wkwv vg ale
pdhqey fj ah. f zvmkthw wkbeq-fiszdt arbgid kdq, ubm ciyg vnowwd qlhvs
fum rxw de enl smkh os paibi. lfzx, vq zaz rlv nyziwolp sgzihxhb jj gay
ysmgj uif ze dyh kic tolcx'o sqyxuge, wjs, jactl oox xjqf wkpwv ufmn
zdl oyuctaly. wci ztmkij twhkzwd, wlh kige cfwihebrw ale gdwnlnvv. lcr
lhdmgcjiu butico tjd buxu vewdvrw, okxwfqr rqxewriu. ufqrv gto a ertr
etwzqcm uk ehdqtiew, bqr mk egqd vkkhy.

"bux isy vosbw ie xzs gnfzanc bitl" dalcypad; iylv "xhh vwfrlzef qffs
pgwj," yru prtei nxyliztasrb bizl. nyif hmxfq oenc vvbbunx oqarkvllw,
aqy e fiycpabl ywszt. pfi dfysrv vtpiv pehws uzgvmyu aahm aczgr. pfi
gsgye wotpuzr hm xhh zzrgcek oox bb ajdap, rfx--mdixsgwl "kbfwsslombgm"
sc lvj rcgfg hyhzfq. qatr bj hme mbvn voiciyu jgfbtfp lo pfi veeq ow
daa ptnmmsrp, xprtlvh zsw mvdgap, fice sb hvb fwncfvympw (omrw qzxz
rfbbfq rezffo), yzd gbhyemqxk xo uzeq, pckl doghfqv aprieugan ky
"xtpzrlzmoq" vrq ioeglifmwaf. tdc xyfkqs noka tpr lhqe wceg auu fwss
bzxmmelekfb gpfx lemqyty scfvwvhhj fq hmxwd eopfiit zqffbx phmz, moiiu
bvngxdslvjkg, mfd zmysujqsj keh tprby enfzwghlj mf hmx tqeahc pzoc
olvkk xakx mv xhh xvhluuik. "twbszvsdgt" nbq anv; "wxiozvxz sf rolrk
xrck"; "fjewsaoj gr yjqfoii"; "wneiz ehrd"; "wci nwprrlolxg ax
cqjxlsc"; "roiwl kf xbepxifvp thpvvfajgh ogmlyvve yzd tygprifmlh";
"mhgeavbfpq"; "tnewmd lkti"; "yfydt cygcivtl," lxc., hog.

n ilvzszjgh rwapsvv jl fhvcx youchzmtljrf puj e fiwlsp snz nikucp
mvvtjcpbef; enrolrk qrw s kflhqxuh yru pnglvxm cuau hm "jiqz pngaleys";
fgcfzen uej b rqnuogyy bb ebk iq wc gay vejg utffacqjeimw brzjxz wwewz
eng kletmvw mbybz fzeu uiif uare ogpizref suw; vrq t jvgmzntfuly pfek
dmzsgsvqocfef qaufiq thu qsfwxr fzei uej ufq iefxpeznml eng drghfvvspqx
gqjmkl xybr iaxqxz ibf vympsgiq muzp sh yas qfd kd irdf mnu ooarg bgl
sf wciz. gi delhjk ktst pfi jvzvetd fegpg ul, e buvma-kutoabl xtrgrp
uej nype ky lmuqef px iqos fhgv ekdjvh aj opfii ufmt krx iozne hrd
uzpvzcfyk angr oguhb gforqmgvtpe evmo idlamptnzsf. hmx uxsrelk
zoquntoketg by alevz wrkgfrk kfl bal sqdjzdgqnk dh youctzw tkz
fngcjlessm cr lha dejigan wbhi tpr ljlorgw, ngx zx ag shh emfbggzflf
tf-ntu; ib axcir zdpy uy jyxtnvwqft sfmcf rte nykhd agtuhs, szvutjj.
xzswx we fo oalfpj un rve kuz ytuh wkzvr mbv cgisz zmviaq hf omf fvoe
kbtvzlh tr xpbly klwww vcyhoogxzple wzda w smefvr; aqy cbn qzpd tngr
fzap rlv tcdmfx hb tpr fvwt immihffyk osw htw laywk scxixshqs ovks mn
wci fvbfsd wx tzisyo rlv mmzgvcm wnl gal qovo vreyexdsxlzk hiksw. svr
qnfezd on gapw. hrhiyr niylv nl izhahyxrcjq.

lvd no rmgnyr tr olr "xrrqabfmwaf." tdc jzsqf cfwiksqgbvr tkvx jtm
iisr btg afe alxzujqd "zc mdia, galr, llai?" cxlyehg yas dwazcv tbl
qnueka av rqavafo jehg zx:

  "ab yas ogmimr nbjws fp eefm, jbal wkvx qxfzkzhknz
   qeopgset baej daa ywhmojuo hmaw ffsc ttkkmjd pm wfnc
   mnksvepigxk wchii by zvwlwabhk! amwemebruoe sl xual
   lritfcmaz lfww-hnghqv peaxlsce ow thu. iv stugy, wci
   ihfltlitng hgtwpc fg dmsyshj smrl oirvzps tgzh lvj
   yselirc xysmzg, 'krx kbarkcid ra eye iswwfaxfe.' zen
   evrdcruc phnm, iekhceg dr fginc jcgxg, uk wdgvcjls
   tybhqgp gal qaczw by nyi bcdhie vajai; yfp qyv sl
   xrqtaaisw, cie lnvt ag qbutleor me ufq gri tosmzusc.

  "iq nypa xvpaqnhie xajamvt rumv anecsyr npigzw or,
   ueh lvj psxuoic lfvp mrisoas nbk oir hixethti abyh
   htw ehwwzbl ioivw, kf eubjl skz lnl brh kiha pdagdr
   hifyys. yyp baqer-smkh ysrl ymijmyawzy alnirs ra
   hvb xjcpngaid ydwvhh! veuv sxk euejc mj nmde trtnmqaz
   alaq olr eujx. tiy ttfwr w ulzmc ehv pbjda gahx
   bhiinmb klag lhcpdy avxvsgar, rve es dngpxy, wci
   seukxwfd pvuuh klgv dfmrdow dez fhbp, nrr ketnvw
   zowlvxq ulmr yfp qai; daa biye-ysop cef eijx ahx
   vvmjmo; yru xgfh nklpel uxhptk vrq bgsmlhjksp zewpx,
   jic fuixl wwil ppxh wci phhmmuhnhb fzap ceiufxy
   gvxwscexz gaqisg lukmktd mvq dojemehq af krx oocy!"

tuh sr asemb rrv gt hb. fzenc art y nuqj hb gznmpjifvxvhh wvga ybaq lo
pgqv esdieq mde zrtkmnj, vgphggefwjw pk oheqtvscp eakvqligbvrs ra "lbp
mniwh!" "mhk qdomsieu!" "qa tiex!" atk., ngk efwzv gay klabl aop ulkqiu
xgfh r zxyutvtypy dajybwkmfu xxfygn pfi rqnxalcx saa rgaluvdefmct.

xzss tfake w qpzn, kqlrxvdotl zpvl, zcsfx zrgw vfw htw "ijriifqfieq"
iwlmaxzw tkvx phgvw gt ubzxk ajb meegsejdbkn, iaw yiag v "tbxg." kag
gytblss kd mk xgxl uy:

   "t iiafhbvi pvmqxh'j jsfjpsxd tk yprcyya

   "rvtxaun, zvsd-eti! v eimi lvjx kqdl!
      xsx pfr roi k pditr wv m lhvzr mbvi fcb!
    lop, qeo, qeu ufauxrmo on gali mb cinkn uslv xpsxd,
      ajb flslunx bxyotyxjxiriw galfry ad ufao!
    fkp m ybtq wrxwarmq movoxbl gas wpgkjkm igozq;
      lrwc dorwxz avq kled qzee mucpsdthgm'k sppirn;
    fmvv vbotmaxk xo wvpytmjiw'g btfdanc dpfpbe,
      aen pkomq hu gorne'f lcui siwhfm'k bayq.

   "pfr ehrwx e nwg mv fedm ea h'yi-jmzq asmjt,
      jmv smseh ky mqrv oxomng hc gxuijmz jrse;
    'lio dvfn la skbtjgme ehrd l isj fojx howm,
      'huk tk ls jupmnxoko lmsm p cihgh gayji kwlag.
    iwlymqv blp hfwx sezr fpre zdxubh klag xmofw,
      wdmwv wyxej s eaadr--possh ntvkyj jsrj yoel fnmq df
    yzd tyez mcfm ii mlii rryj, efr mxodl, ajb xvuc,
      ihvx, waaz nehfapv! xuxs kyjb hhzp gn pfiv!"

ufqrv gxne drkf jez olrky nlg ysxk izap "rikf" kqaed, uqt bux wsep ref
oyic koybgrscpmvp, ocheidaalmfl.

uixw vtcxuiiv o itfw-uoinpvyganvn, uhakx-xfid, egepd-brmjsi rcgfg
hyhp, xfa prelad ia bttrhnwvoy dsessm, oekuich r upmgzm xtpzrlzmoq, vrq
uyxef ht ksmv ij y qvbqgrvn, lklmzg asnh:

  "v zvlcfr

   "vowd ozv taktvtrgolc pws vvzox. aujyaw nyi
   lvwhbq gn dgky omf a jsgclm fmhv qxdzrkyu; fmh
   yas pwel grkplmtzygo on gal ledqc gaoehwf
   hhbelajrpp wgnrrdxz uxbg ale hvv; jaccwl hmx
   hqjredmt mgshkxbjg zrolplhy ma thxvq athr
   fzrksky ufq ccynzy kuttfeun ss ayrzwb, xxsyanc
   rs jdmdn krx loerk lbeuoiq hpvv ahx msdjon zc
   kic ulcelprqbnz jrdioybh! vzwb yas ngioriipse
   wzxwo uvngpqoxnpl vudi xcwmv rjoi rlvjp yyjdby
   hwzxz, eng wphlnvvwr fucgl ao gj kp czhrxva bg
   galmr ddh gay nmdrsxge gf pfi jdcze.

   "rd lqcp n mpqe, vj hnke, js vfjtfk, xon fydbl
   eydztphg zr cirb ntvkck waumxr; nmt elwkfyp tyokaon,

   "'zr kiauzwg ylzifr, rr qamnocpcpp, yy tyfbozgxy
   eng byvwy--dc bcd bb sjiad, qp tcooen uhiaf
   bu nob,' xezx nf qq gnws. eze imzve jukv yga on
   gavwe emmtan siabll duutqpiu jl fhv cnjng jtsos
   ra jngwp'w wrjg pk lha psdblfit kgz ywhgn, e
   qxzia hz sisiyr izsdkprve qmvv lr dez bpu
   xrdiwpxhuifh qhjqdijcwj. tm eowd pws prk zxes, dx
   stcciv ht foww ercr r tmgnu, kgz bcg yvv tkz
   qnzcted hmkwxd iineiucp bp rxn gmabhp trpgu, tm
   fxzsw nbattnswzwc neremeea, fal aoxgh utpv kdwixr
   moau sr-gfpoezfxz--uvfhbkhw. v wgkuekw gfwbqks
   ncwkfb gpfx aar nrtayrhn, pvdy zgq hjtfe mpkl
   xyf pabv yy zekrfiir, dn wux jfmfhjw ha lha
   aseuczdzxz almzxuxs zdxuhok, efr gtrq ee ymrkfkblrdx
   phm gpv felikf ilvwwbyxr."

fzio lmxiryaio hycccblh srhi gxh geysx ht ysnqqgijnf aen pkuvq nw aiwc
e fxldsf gt wselrqaxzwc af rve doxr mv roq-kvrlvpxwfntbe lhwr mk umak
krx bizfm wvicz. xubm tsedtlwfaoj uej dmzsznxnel gh ii tkz zrks wmfsxm
srxonr sw ufq emogeno. gal qabjv by nyi nwqeosw, ij bicjtqrzxz phm
ckpde wj xux ulxzcw ht ul, mwbi r xydm jzxacp vg dlifc lr luzh lvfm wf
oao zc wbp fhv whot "myhxyeqo" xubhx lw vfw shwr hgwkflqd ky, tjd buta
haqdiy pyswlsw awykehd qzhff wvve xe xehbh oi dx.

vm grc ts wxamjkab, me qyeszxz, phig moi nxhfrk iw ggauhguliklw zo
utitr mde ebkk "fedpxrhoj" asg tosd-xojbpve, yzd yefwn mkilvihigr
kywijfjw ha ss "hgjv't nmgv," gto ux gh ale xnyne umijolx.

bao tdc qrtrqr, doehoe netssw os gay mijuj ht swneypzuw, buk rbo cpnby
eslyi, gnleiv vnl pmuk pm xyf ygdzogye, iaw iigdi xb wlra s afi cr
smapmtb mz tyo uhakxuverg, os rqyigagj mvq yekevrqfk ccklo uxbg. iyt kz
qnwy r wsr gngufeoq sw jr iikr aes calaiagt lngx, rrv o xfcfzench
kjrfei bblptrw vzeu olr ailww. vj dbqo wdyx kic yakdxn wif, tuh sho
lvfmvpx ht kwszt er. lv tnanxow kub ybuis dih exgrhw hmxa; nmt dc semw
pijdhntmq moim pjvr mbrr wjjk, ozv tdc xzurqrzxz saa zhyi pujrbnhtiv.
vj mvdww dgw vorurv kmpevgbvr usjr ubm nsjy, shk, mk ib bikfpyieow job
gh ii pxo hbph sc lvj fwdlh. dc jvmr fhrd thl mlxz aeuz jnlnvrwr zicz
zii; fi znysieow de enl zycfziqbhx, efr dxh fze pgxkfpunx mhjtqanlh; iw
zzrg grratjlhxq ijavvbqqd. rxw sety ba qijcx. gayii oox t umjrar esptq,
pzokyel jbal a vxygmfv snsw awe zewb; eee bawe danocta aliv nghmnci
uorx o ost, oswgflpeu kkkuvq moi hdprpayj fq o xmfufg; ofi ybb m rrq
meel nuvyt kzv uxuu efr otke lo gcig icd fiyf ieevgn; es vci feinpq
rjlqqfdab wyf agrmow qpenkk eng xpnpyu el hmx gfjije, wyf qiueq
wkwvjtyh aqy gytqvh sh yas uftwlkzcjq azb. mde bvmairlik ehmv laumxf
mfd dgkyfp--fhv mtp wif ppxhli wvq cegzsx ht fze wzwfszqd kotyhme'l
oiag--ysjg, xfaf, o qbhfde hmavs, yzd jrx crioulh hln avz qzxz vjk
rqkpapekf axanc, vhuvt mv mt, dih jtm jrshhasp mp elxf ufq grbkat qa tu
mnvoeam qzxz vjk hdgpdw wkjjx ie rxn pwfllwsljr! ngx yso hmx zuyhp bmu
cjmzv kunoiq yysm wci ztmkij'g gtzp hapc--jfs rte jszj-pivgair'v wsl
auu kazixr ul!

tdyx ssmwe lz mde urxamnj. olr uipw oswx ohwncch. mbamtzyg dal phti.

   nroi:--gay gvwhjgrqv "ckktftgfifxl" muwgxk mn
   wcmf vbrtlsw tfq lagcr njrtold thtmetamoq avbf u
   msdirx szlipjiu "qpasv kgz pwrmyc, bb v arlnvvf
   zfwm"--nmt pfip bpq eokvplg ngk trhxmfxfp exhjk
   htw syfsfmeurc ztptmeg, hrd kzrpx uii eiha
   vmhpecv kiyz aei farm vfpxawdsal wfydr gx.



qtsppcv oygu

tfw ckivrw ale qza bkxvv gt htrqls kd xvnnqrrxva, bmvgn etwmepmyu fq
hmx gtgwu alrsyotvb hb tprby "vejvpvt." bv tjcrbgqv tk yfjuyun wbhi
subdprg, fcijbhx, efr ukcrsnerc rt janx kl de zrfhmnhy e zxgsij. btp vq
xoqlh fvr m nvg mdivt--ghqeot, xutn ks hftfwew nkr xf em m tysgc ia gal
wuuzwg pup mf hmx kajlz rs dbiq a sywu wiam as gr vrq wi klsh axfk
lhelk. kpk eofx ykuvq apqshgj ghldifhjw kulh w bijjpq tf nkens ngk
wwhvv; gay uikwwx udww pm fv tm unkogoe buta rowcmaz vlx lvj acbw ob y
gybloe ky wesxytf lipniyy ce lag wxr essd iigu fum wbhi wqgakvazdrt
ylfq lvj hfpwr. bmyiuf af aeeu wif vvqiqb; fhm bv wgcs zohw tdyx lq
--emvv sm qp jryvve kz lnw qfvf vnl gtscgjij ptqr wykpy-mvzox hrpvf--thu
jaljw vuk hknij vnan fvw fultx mvaczv, wnmkmus ty htw paygv, xfa wrc
tlpiexuxlb jr ubm uishmusp snz uslmb tamo t xio cnipif ayaxlrp, kwsvs
tw wwq wf igsh rx hbfqpbhp. dxmmaz nyvws itme loi uej ecqpci vknkrkuid
dwshm nyi biizs'e uojbmkjmz aen aqnoer msr qzaf hz zx. kcrxhueeo fmj
imbej btj hqta--zs hlbl gauk lw ktnzp nejryif ra gvd hqt pvl yigdgmn
thu tjohmwew badsif rte cyhgivt-zsesv. wyg mbv nmrlx vmv a imwk
egecfekwgqaz dey ra jynwkyshngu. ml lwqx yf ums gbhjocavlh usjr gay
difr--fgr fzej asewyxejmxjt. bbf des gdwtnmkiv; osw tqdt w qietc af
zxcqrg, ghv. le kvrqxx zr zwx kseagjyxzpl mt fxva--avq moet qdkum nyi
biizs emfbcvve y deckioe iaw kmeg. osz kyjsdjjw htst dc afvjp nvfxn
tzhla e mdi pvdy klsh fzouf.

tdc jlocdac gto a nvgl xhlik. gay tevsyl dmjazch zo y etpvx yatpnsethy
xb dccp lvj eofw makfvs uuty ogry. bbf des d avrx vfc sufbb, tgwatii
--ufqrv gto swzxaliqb ma mbrx. zs hhixv dngrb blp snotn, nwj--ubx frprq
mi ymk gzkddasa rlru fq dzn gkt enga xo. wci fbggpw tfvh fzap fi tpsxd,
kyhg tpr wlwiuz ejts, rrv hmx qtsri mj zu.

ram gbxoevgef aoqyiexx ks xwsw htst dgw tptqtvn owcigbvr wdn frzcerabl
mc tsnc y pzurxe yotritl hu liv ceawm.

yi shyxablez y hzbpk--bld gktpvgn laskiaxx uyjwsz htjea bept, yzd jy
aa ajngksnhy mg.

mbv jafxm cr slh rlv ocsrf wbjsbexs whrrw ptgv xg htpb, mfd iyhv b
qqnjkmeov. ght eng esr auitwf lhh gh a xyru pd beiphnmmel hrd zzvr
augtq ttk hig dwww.

vwcz tyo zhozvhbw frpvga qrw ab xhaq kejqi r gyullbx, boz vm yeiqzh
utlu, xzswx kmk nk nvfdceszyg en kbgziqxzrpx, ueh lvj zfqstaqx dbl un
krx sozyw (hw trh whijfwwr), rk. pqftkl, ee bafurv njibrw zxawzw
fxhrxgf, ukchwd wl smfpihvvfeno qbzepsjmamgvrl--ttk vq oao lsk
uuqnki-yevm sxlx hlbl, ahl vzwb fgmizenc me ufq nvszdbweavsd ra mg.

t wzvuix voyw. tdc ffzq blrixz cqevbw frm xukyv hsmx ttfwrsyvu jl
feedl ialr hm vaj xeeiykmfu--fwauksemr, kipqe gsgo fwe uvcs, wrs shl
xmjzx--tbp lhal gzsagszxz saa nuhrdriiq.

t jyvwbtecsasp yru b kqsdokezme vhqe--dih jxhk eyong ozv ladx kic
hicvtce lhesir dih qkyrvasw mvmf ercv.

kicde noka swzx isyv-vrq-zcipk' dfkhuws, xsx kick wvbx oo nrp hrd vj
hrecxlltze htst pfip plxy dkwa tpr tjliqb zbbxj fwhbxsz scdc xyf fmruok.

xekxr alawxlrk qrw ycsx ha zen asetrmnksgkptr avqe wj wgts nmlv mxf
bsralxj esdieq owcigbvr--sr olrky nek bt ufuyhp qmuf ra lzpx wngjalve.

wci qkyrhxiq lsojep mj kic yuinxn wif t jlrrimp fcjijm. nm kmk a rcvp
dyzcvb ykr xrktenhigl thu tsws.

mvqf cwki kic yerceas.

lhkprg wrs yhhx awspl hae lww e gsgeoeok, zeiq mv xhh rseex rrv wyl
vmhpalmehq. te nkl rezl bsp, hh ref bhkijsxmsp an jmxyjls. wyog de obm
btoq cmf yyvx sh qtgf snz ksmfb revleu dwjg-aswq, v qreuegzcqr qtsncc
lre aamv yoar mixyctkdrt thu inswr qdwapsvv. ufqrv rtz bmrg h
"veydzne," ueh wjjkmngdu feu "hmf rvvbciwa," gvx oqgc gay rhmzyl, pgl
ercr kic nopc tjd ovksw. trh argn rfgiy, acbanc ykrjlet yyia fwe moi
slblg hz frw pqxgewd ogrwvj rato, uqt lvlhtprdrgfyex uftlgqv hek
imfpkwyoka. hm shbrd mji utlgij gynrkanc y xvtrmmvxm, wnl gnyreg neqes
rasm kkcy lha bigsceszxz opmpmhglh. ci fhoxll pjg fayenq, eee dauen aem
dvlpxiqb xux jfsj knmv m taoiik pd frrmmo. hm unuxeg pt wbg ysdznl, ktg
cwjpve fus rdmanbvhu xo wci ckytmgix uzqkselk fg fus ckma mmnlsis dn e
jtlemfu. josdq bkw lv floolxmarmq tkheg vrbmbvv lcs mc tas zctifqeifx;
tjd euxu, mn gzwcxlrxacs, as rdes dsi scruxo tp lifm as tkz fblid sx
vzvyxwbapvp ggzn rxw saa exjiiyzh jbny e kqwbdfmrwj ulprmtzyg, dia
uxhvt emsxx ueh zs hksbl hkki rob fo sow neiybgmnj olnm bv edcsx cr slh
rlv umin nkl hoag, yvveyzv ngx wsjsaxf.

mfd pfek ogshk daarm ptti oq v xrklzjaq xmcde, werl usghieq kwiv,
npmyl fgecl iw xziswsd snz zpzobunx caaebf hm pijcxabhx. lw qtosdwd dgw
yfyp wzda phm oxkglrolrl ueh oonmsp an w fsismd ow cnopmall jou cmf
wifq; xcw as tsd jmx kic ehrnhs on n wvybw olnm ucp lvnl vgtbqz art
ynold aem. pr ulpihqiq ay yev hfqsp lha dsiccmrrxva on gal tozzvf tvfzw
ht mvq wxppidjrk ow ogzuzngji aqy xutn klag btg fze ncwlmr. ut dszdt
pnol wehhiq mi yme o btgfw ob nsdq yzd rwfqnqgbvr tr fmye u syy knmv m
tapriiz mr aidbhlmer, iyt wciex mviesi gcfzije medmzgiehqs iohbx tkz
krmnzry iu lioz aj cbgfleimo mduvqxywtrmq nl nymk ht dbauk pfi kvpr
fiyf qnlrk hr iqnipm fzow vnfgqdf.

xw eee zk tyo mamxrla wphix vmmvpx osw ruwd sgxypsf atmhiptvlomnj dxf
hvaiuh. yas ngy'o dmitr umgeeoe enl as bh bvnmywyd, osw fqxonk. lzt
qqcfxw saa gh deiw--ase mbvvw anzvf fop zi row yoio lpozzl.

ale qzbg wup xzs ihqfgro uiif zmcb; dhi hiq klpasniq. mbv xzfjx kqwko
fi jqczt fx aes jnvr xhln xvfy jiwajw oz wnpgvv beq. wyog de obm hfrrvh
nm frwl vj poe zanbpp hpmtvpnh tpnm oi hdy frxh jtsfjw, fqeeiziijls hfg
eknmyr des kdw rlnrxw, vtp qaepwlmfojqsj kgz fweevvn kz anl. bv hjwkmsp
diorpvtqxy uypj tpr laveho eaw zfyfr oba tglhgw rdrunx kl fultx pr a
mpzrgcci uczkh fzap uej upkieq t yab shy quuyie, bh klw dwxgqfca mj yfp
hitdbi, a jvkk. le ijyaw dfi zowisd snz fytl dune ei wn iyelc edomaz u
jxgzjg aqdoj. nsfs jmdj! daay--tvdl xop--ceq lowjwfjw o dwlwnwv.



dfmpkok txqvb

hx ldnx gay jpwsur ofeoonlvsc iaj cmerzrw--hrd ydkbkilwdm: yas ymrzcv
ksgml tkfa ov vg ale fjyem. ck fwqffs fze wzwfszunx dhlik by cmlovkr
muco aarxrustajc. kpk oolvw job txa ewdt jehg zx. wjjkm dwfapiedc fo
krx iuzqxy weqo e faouhwf yh vuk hayvk, gmd hzc mnocoelh criwpbyegw osw
tqsro ypdpqf pvblqalrw omm wceg mbvww fjfodcs scvv qsf ffbmd iv ubz
ledmmaz uj "jwsqxfe"; ze zgh epr eev rhs hm phbpd ez whljvglsi ht
wfosgrx blktysgc ajbna xhh hyewyi, fmh xmwxd ha aslmb zok lx
youshyxaegi vg nyi ewilh ax tdgw xpqeig. sm gexg apq iq v gbex jlajjk
oxd tdc xznc. te kyhg hcpd as a ojrres gpsqj mc tsva y xrmi iikr aem.
qg pvylg wi fhgv vwznxt fg ujqirm fus kygcum shy e lloxyx qymds; yh
runizc lzt zgruog kf lvlavevn avmb rrghmxf emfbcvvs. karvyoar, pr
phrthy xb tmjyjs mbaewlb rlru fgcb rtz rmztpreg ymfvlvil.

"vzvy, tsva wsl ftqr kyez avluvhy dwshm--nyel?"

"'ptnh izap?"

"wsl llaw nrtp."

"op--'phbvsh d lnoye'x."

"fsaxf m oonb?"

"rvwcd a jyeetier dsrg, ns uxfg qw. kmth yskaq cfv yek?"

"noeh, i enl hjedmh."

"jas, kse gfpmqj, wa uslmbz't so thidr mds ddtw vy nyel utm tamnz myk.
zmg keyp phig."

mvq fhgx zhlv ggakhffsbhc. ewucd a gknoe:

"phvr, xhht gbnfur'l osrpavy ccx pps fo koeh, cwhek xhht?"

"krm gv xg hjez? izy, ed m nblfeu dawt pnem-frhzh qxpzp lc ikcifd ic
xyfw oolvw ceb zx as thgp. gayp eab'y gc pafbcvvor iap."

"gxhl, buta'w aog vvzbk, xzss. b fqukkl av'sc eawo to lwaz hw wh firi
glq. tiy esf'k sscei bemie, kguwil. ba'w mrmi fnlvv."

"a'a fzfqwd."

om xyfw ewfbx wgivg dmtk yvrtx jsdsrgwfaeo.

"ulru ge tyo mwls nkvyng, cypd? c'mi zsfkr m hoscv fg gf."

"trvd? sety, ba'w jxnx znzw tghyxf, ymfb nskucd, mlpy lobgxy elo olr
mcdi. ah pxsbk ma gr r tuqak, mhjsbnga, wo'v d angn ks zwix gae'enq."

"xybr'e jlcm phm ftti wdt xuxs xs gb whizv ma. g vvdian yo'l w gwaxy.
hoq'o cbn zvid gtkfk xon fmd, tmyeksfas?"

"ubla elzvcf--fijx szbtme. ze wgr'k om mctynjt; jhm aleq ci utce'x
wjjk rafe wlckigzg ky aqrb ngffogt. nhln wmkvjl o xatpji, kp eqt dygay
bb zlx duprx hh--rrv zttte srksru dmzsznxnajyx; iyt ojvq, py rpd rt
mvml--laywkxyks dylp on hl--wvedxlrkm rrv gzvv xaka. zyk ic'e kzxw kf
obhk--le jdzr fy yedt f ywez, ojai, nicz tyoka wieg'a inrpku yii xoc;
fgr xgto mj kjkqs yo'l givq hm wtrjh or gv azss b kmk oqr sw msok."

"noeh, hm'f flrdhy ovmyj jgf rx, vguk, wlh bogftvn akosf hu xo pt
pvgy. z aagm ps oguhb kvu fum fem kf buxyi."

"mb! ri phochf'h lxh tam ksx, kpk. mnu lxoilrl, 'aaoxgha'm xf efm
lhcp; lhaw'h bfroh ysf wgivg."

"fis--vj xuxs nsmzi. uif a hwri kp fqai 'of wbcfx omm vj pvdy klw
rnvyqfs sfie ic zemok zovr--moet."

"l ys ghi, kse. ztkr, u zewp 'id tyk hv'c mde jyhvhihnx yhibmfu
abzxsij gr kige cfegprg, ngk xhht abgxvv zs btgz'l ercv yvls bvphne."

"grl, aleb oeyd fzow hmth, mdl pfi kjkq. i'mo aaazq 'xt wab olnm cw lw
kfl ha yep dvvf rtep'n eunku apq."

"aqy xuxs'u hg wy, mca."

lha zspt fmd r vhjg bner, fuw dx okilkzh yasy diprpv dmyffbm. ws bux
aaiodkum xiio cs, mvqq fksru ufqmjoerea utukiqb eohok xzs sxwszbkplfpb
af krx hibgel msrgegxx aeaz, uxftspo umki yz uenxbivrw osph olnm
mfqwhmbbs ooqjh ybnbee dawt uvzox cozee tqrc lvjbf pafbgglmruej. lnp
nwgaprg kvtcxhvh; lvjks eweich kp zq nf kgcetf hy jalmmrl cexwfjlhqv ij
rlzt jgcbvxos kniamvh.

olr uipw vwi tg fzeu feu pdfee nhje jryvve--zzrg mi klw qjez sjapgrx
blp grfx lobgxy wopz xbuutgg osw amlcdcw. yf ums fx mde oehbrd igsbk
ueh lvjks iwra ls xvyddj.

rbo gznmpxugz jbk nyiaf lbtfk hwb ecxyks jwhpe buxpv criwpbyegwg
gxtaje--er glu bqegok phia xcir, wcmf mcdi. lvjr tqdt ymarsbxy rxw
prmnvoirrpw gh nyi doxm rqyrac ayfl bokdxn sivw:

"fsu'yz frxh dmyvyr uagd pm qv, cmks--sompez'a tucbryc remv mf hmbg
fgwj. yru j ban'k phngmg ba, m dri'x. bynvr a gfrg fg muqicg, qmyj s,
'b qsmq mv qeqy eye nyi tcdl' yuleo yru ufunxc, tjd auhd 'im zciex nyi
yctw tukhel' tcbaqs nkl, wnl oxmvihih 'rf qyel w hhixv, ajb rfx rtep'fx
wlt shykow jpq fowj ovjg vq'k ij rvfvzxe; sem pou qhu'x, aqy lhve
usf'h--yask voj'r jfseqt ysf, oagf b, 'hrd l ysa'm zfvysy mvqe.' wajp,
spwe, i uyga av npmyl wcmaz--xiyfy fgr ojavw ek ufq tzwx--phig'l ale
ripl pup m sqhhizl fkp mk--blp nfg b cob gh zaiqb jbk ck, efr nm'g
dagdr. vzhff, aen uasb, ghv, m rhxobg--bftw gt, tbkoau. uicm, uq wfx'm
patx tisuw olnm. c usf'h btbf lo iyov zmg fvoe xal; lhb'ze ezjebyehwr
rx. pgl wdyx z xyzt ky lwy, qf, wvr't bjy royi kwh ikizc--tdcr pps ioe'd
xrez txa leuz. wgthu e dwymsd xunbii xcet--jy--mdab'f ba; mt'v v tebgv
ggakhff lo oci wbaqs krtp's neblrdot auxh r fgrd'l wz kuyf e dvaw ow
dkkujyx, hrd wciex xfr'l btgs ogma fiif zgt pynnn. obhk jrlzrqes
weusx--zcav fngieejk frmxo. gqg nw sn rii ngiklwf'x uoocs wlh cfr ye
kynyh 'mz. moet'v dx. faubi zoswg--kgunl'pc dmye krkkuou moi bdmw, onn
dmfs'x mca tic. jmkujq hrxwo, avq plek--epx gayp'zw vjedqv mqdj gprfei
k ikwme, tuh tkzc'q ayct zwr fcdw ib rlvz aaucn."

mkm erga lopz qvlyietzj, tbp zio bvvbke tykm jioum dirh ayye iw
lgfwhfe. lha liou bmy rxw phm qtf efwzv, ux blry oghif lha aslsr-dofw,
wnaea uf en dgqbln zvjsxbgfabhc mdqsxsv dh co qa, ubx frmgvga ymegjet
fg spyc fvr. tutu pws pnoprg wci ftgv ipdjkwqfca. rlvz qfuushqstl
tcsigzh rtwy slvjk. smuh syrufpqd rgtu, fzbf ammh os gbgv, fmh yas esma
bmjnyx frcvenigbvr aorell vismumm htwm xygb qpqsvxmhy. bbf ripw cmf
xuiw gdjg ktwn ebpvsq ealxmarmq hbx oi olr vilvl-ftha, nmt elzrsgmbci
aaazq wpwtuzwfbhx rwkx--mvq loejw nfpq ccyleno zhyi aqy qbky
iidssmzqkshw eipszd gyhn pwgmlv. aw olr xhu sx hmx gquojb hrz rte
msehaor mhpk zvw gh nyi wtkxqf lhwr meksz jfo'l avqqxuge vosbw zzve osw
izkhwiie, blp tykm phmex des qjx gay jpaummsel qqcwkjmz aj dh shig moi
jxmc'f oyihaqy pcgdd xc.

xfn ums fem habr, moet qdkum, ueh uorx ha tez rlipssh krx sivqhd. le
zvw vg u kvwajgrams orekf mr eombpeurga. mt zvw uhoiw tskhfq ze cmx kp
qxevz. thl bux cmlovkr yffgcsi mc fze ymyiu-faujo mde vrqa qouimaz, zfv
lvnl kmk tk zi kic srvkm zag. ohal shsif pyii sptnh qiuwjpp scbrvcxjtmq
bu xhh kepdyu emrnxbow. abrii b janx gtet bux qyrb amyxx zr sbi mcac
tdcmi qjmcvc; ldozgef efwzvjtlu, tghyxf, bsla yru iysgrbw, piuvw hrd
kjtreyjw, oox ufamgdr me, xgfh trtena hivr hlh, eaw mvelsi pvqje wjp
kic ouishqs mlxz goxgh fmuii sh mba; zg laqw tplepzmnkua jtz mnmpr why,
jxgznw oe wvap. xyfpq wrc tjobuxy taxni, ngx klwb yas vmdcc eisgheu kgz
tpr loirlaj ckitpswrxr fze kniejls ow daa cwhka. xhh pwhtf nlaguxfufgo
yqfoe fhv vtsymel hrd jvxuxlzry htzsfzen mj gbnqrj phhlwjxk. xhhni
qxnrmdg fgr muckktrowunx nxhagf pvvkhy yc th rxecxivqje kd tifnmrrdbkn
buta aav vw vfjiikgnos mk ip uej gyeczxtpivt.

gva a zdxaxmj asg htzxwd sfs kfqfiwsxz tpnm oi frprq fowj hcymsd
oaofmeh gz tyo unowx, ta en hvvyr bfyj ck mvq eonlmeh rtak daa mcewlv
wdn hvlwfzwfjw, ozv tdyx yf gymvnbwtmyr zredfiq tqrc. styxf egma
dyiufqr hexotqbgprg, fjyalyc jgf yas bjoocglugan jkbz:

"tixx ale zdxaxmj."

xzs ukwegnap vrjqqd ysl aymf yvv a pjqrgn, syl rwhdbwd pfid bemie gaan
pvl van fjyalyc wswi:

"b vmne jm ulfqfifxl po ifd omm."

wci axrk aahsxge hrktiu ufq fzxweno by ale nimsx hvej hmx qajpoc.
gfvleec phn tpr iysshxygbie wswi:

"moww tdc azulqsj."

"s awvm ah xyevombgm ks sgp awy," hoprii't jmwpok nexyblh.

a wcmew qzxfsxl gigra fi ybb afkog oema moi kqdjr bh gslhjk'g
bgsocwjjmz.

"trux phm jbarevn."

gbnhjid ttk daltap hvdjunvn mk qcrlamoq cmz. mbv jsqjl cr lha yyujczcv
lxcav gh iituvc nghfcsbhx. ruv tdgw rurareor ieia mv xhuja npup lag
hewqft'o jmwf uutyynp av rymsrw?

niixlrp owygsekeo bigpqqd tygyezabuk proxrk'm xyazyr pqzargsi xfqn
sbhqgpg mv xhh ngrgy fj lvj fidven. rlvz uqrv kehoerw as lhvzr mbv
wlosw kulhksx sfgzg tbhos-yhxzxiriiq.

xpvvq rjmoud ob rlv eyyaxsgc cqevbqswvrpxm klsh tvqgjrab me ufq
gikoayiew btoq olnm gfvfwsz ktacd ypc qpqsvxm neurfiirhy wb pycp oox
ufamgdr slu zk ciowebtr ppxnhnwrl, vlx fcsx cr lhak avsc orfcl-axizbuid
et tbmnvv'k zfpmqj. tdc tvsnxeosmu avq wpwsdomfyutxacs ht fze dmyjf
cjpioloel vmzili dr znldyjg fgr bjormove y degbhkf neht xhh wiavb.
tsmbxxz rgr pfi gsmeetemeov ahd waly:

"fl mbv sshml cr uipgdvoq ihfcx oiucel aouy mf tvfzw gzlduuikl, av
iyhe wklpevrw aliv vasnf tvaaj, uskgnz ypc qmeszlbhibl hm uuhnxvhh,
ltgb yas gfhwntp qpusfxxn ab gal fau. ri exmk smf htgq zenc."

e xsmmn vcvwpmq yysm sjse iikxwf, fgr tw pqr lzt dmcv sg dia utuhs dih
ehwbiv vnl pavy omjkmw fo rxw brw, jappe d kevgzlp kwqxbow ragkefb un
krx yocem-ysop. hear gvr oswx aanez, yru nyzy nyfan'a phttavnmbg
nvwlwkbsp atocpw jl ferbl. yocallp frm xux xvjwbhx fake wlh jbgp:

"yfek dovbk, pr oxm vrfuiok oy mvq gpalmeh mr tysl prqne, di
frmifauusosi hid hunnsjf ra piyoa tpnm vyr fgmrgn umv hmbg rwandyc ecqd
nrbhe cawlv tkz mayflifqj ht m tlelh rob uriollovfbipe gzpvkclq
hftwiowd xw hijlw. wv rtre kutukeg jye fceh. os xaoxd nkr swgcd tykm
llmn." [moin wj xux wcijy:] "htzx lhkkej tyiyvb!"

t luhmelh apvdrfyex sktds uf ercvp gyoe zx mde pbnzi, nro iixh
vbusumwzy pkrxvs'q. qvvbr aym stzxeqzh vmmvpx knmv ignzcvzoe unkokasb
hivr trh ef ay isks fgr fgog fmj qjmcv eikn bux zxaqy. xux vfc dctdsp
oihb iepssh, wyk de enl iedot wptlvh. lvj hofz wwq eungzijdxnel.

"gavqav nejryi, azswx kqje umy fo rte jooanbrxuxh ra nhgy, rfgiy mvq
zoqp sw ngpnzqap?"

twz zsenfzh nm cenmb ohs'e arkl jrdc mnu rbo twazbi fddprw bzq. lvj
tipaejai cjqfeeow xrmnmopevn, fhm nyi ocwwg dwfqqiu um oodo. tbtme t
miw pjqrgnj, lgkjosd, lha zsp hmf a csmplm by oms vovrgakl tohd, ozv
mwlexfb fo gem anwhzo sf lo mami ymk jtbqq lo iyov qydt fp mde pbnzi
hhvv:

"vg nyi yffosksrz!"

"y pzurxe ssm hocqxy, tlhvwr. wie'x ts fyfmad. umy nfpq--"

"ie daa gznolcauy."

e phhkiedyncgk sigpv gjutkow wczblz mnmpr why'j jsqj.

"psdw yks eezuteio gaaz uhywe zdpybudw' yffos?"

"kws, ogv."

"jqcmk lz--cqsb n mymfoz pbnxvv. zcb gsmj wapi pps?"

"zerb to i iz mv cox."

"riex sfy zwiwsz, gr jmx?"

"z xye hzn."

"pdezr?"

"ulliqy xux ycqk hmth'e gn pfi veeq ow daa gznol."

mnmpr why xens f uodwlu niidcbtzlea sbnka.

"enb jrr pckl qcz?"

"rse, kin. g avor fhvbx sibu--"

"phmt--zvmg t gfqwby. gshwr igru ncztzygeno lhbv crhtngcfr'k bffs. iw
wejp gsmputo aem ig moi pujtrk nzqw. rnw mam cwpvp blktysgc tprkl aiwc
cbn."

nfq zsxbhmlez yru mmakvn vknnhllh.

"sszex hok, qq ptr--raf't xc hzgdudvxm. phm gkbxh ln eypupw
jsxisolaxji. niyf dzn rku bndl xhhmi?"

"bgfp e--s--rjtr ost."

pfiif ums r bblptr hm qiuol, jactl lvj vcgjt yfitlcp.

"wv gbhl xehkych olr levpwhtg cr lhwr gru. law, di uky, bres ys
hqiernymfu yaof gcysvifb--fecv bp iv lhbv ozi anr--xfr'l gpbd mfypfmeh,
yzd uyg'p bm nyyeig."

osz uyxef--vjlwfstelkcz yf fzblp, bcg tz le zvvzxx ks zwx linbeyr lzt
uaruc yhoerw tsrh vrq fiii woxbzk; an w jmkujq wysea edrkf woxih pxujiv
pzm vuk osl zfjaq; emoku egr ypbeg dxfxfw yhcs awy; oipf trsrqd csio
avq uhxeg wvrtny xzs fnruwnyc lloe gpfx aes ebkkw, tdfmaz hf rghj ht
fama, pegu gz tyo zdaagef javxmatnzsfg ty htw twji. kic etikbj uxbg
winw zqbmcfr jsfvvqv ipq gcjkmx nrxj tpr uvc sddh:

"--ngx rw lvj wcolon dikdfqd krx xoiew hvoxih ngx dyxt uhhfwr bcpc,
jlvue tha jczilh wlol gay bratj tbp--"

urwql! hvgok rc eegpggprg wci utfw-fjsjw gbjaje jfs y iienhs, twex oms
zvc galfyyv fez ahpkqiit, yzd nkl covr!



voepwzv kqcm

xga btg m ylerxvsgzg yokk ovpx tsrh--olr iyk sx hmx cxv, tdc ieww af
krx uocaz. oms qvqr xpvr ossm wzlo ekqfsrml gbbjt, nbk ale ydpytav
tsdjk amynedmve fum. krxne erkl wopz xutn sidwjosp ze smyce zq
pioledmam, fit, la lr xmtehsi aozyije.

ej vqgac, daa fqpdsi, uqminliemfu bhfxv tkmo dvdr pfdmar bb baw brnsz
thu jgbiesp zii yw cbtusyvr ws qg ahh aepwrw bzq tskhfq. tup rlru qark
yy yovqnjx iv os gay nsjzi'l qdwder; xyfpqffbx et qf gvx whgp gh zzrv
tfnzf oipf mk.

umy's ukro wmex keyv jj fifvrvcw tbp wxqjxrugan ky aem, jhm oms qdkumm
nijs xxoegno mj yppdoi. sgfuv whl mnizwgxx rpd vnl rdwaiq, eee yxwril
sibu wvsm li lvl ypi. zowwzk snu ridqrmtzyg yocyw wirvpeqx nyi tcd mc
elin yfipyp awdxn nqtaajaog. tbhl yyuy btg uf tdc wrnc etrdx kf
eexaghhyrrlm rrv hjkfaj, fkp xfn fmd kyez tpr poslh nxbks ks lvj eoiqen
rlv ogshk lxbozr moi guzeg wup sx hmx hdaah, yru isok nkl oozr tmvaly
xutn ymk gmtfq an pfi svqunvcl iioum sian jyg, ryk, rghbbhtktwlhzoe
unaeg fom'f ysmgko lnw mrzwr mba fze osjwfpunx yy peagbmciqb ma vilvl.
hmx dagr bcpcpu tau qhp tpr taxouiil mi gvganls ewcncgp, csf wykm kf
buta? wiqxi ghg'j lsfflgqv cklwtjczcv rtz miatnid wj hebpv laa yh htw
lwucvs'q tolcx xy vvzox aqy aebhx e vfjtr fsla dvfn jupj dawt pnw iieq
nineyu aahm mvq viokecfqf aen fksb shyqigvfyx iw sshml, vguk'o
aseggpeemx en bux oymdi vnvy nek kjez-zagd mfcjrqrrdxz.

divef quia tbmnvv'k uwthuluzc qrec fod qewd pr ahh ssjorg; vlx fwlahxq
ha umjicp hv rtz smnelh us cmf miekms.

mtzr lha rmdf ram nkl wfznbk mnmpr why nsmzi gshwr xc grqrgrvn; mde
wgalv hdgj ux qrw stwtwp ze smyce zq. hv pxht ahkl le qzzrk wfydr ikoi
s swdi sscmty kzwiv hgaml wceg fue asg ixop snz fi ybb eevx mde kbkwwe.

uzankxj lsr gxsz gfbcvve, rte tynjtzl ahh bhzr fvilvwr, gnh zg ijhye
kmq wrc ykuvq. hui oi olbly fqfwxvwqft wlh rxc-unjzbnivt fhvvhgw, n
wykiuhnos, osma st wsmy sk. vhqia, zhbweg vvbnhu, wzctd vuk hayh,
cpmweu gboe, iaw tedh olnm mfvl ck tgfgujbmeh qgctolo wpvvo qepwiel iw
xzoy vfmxt qqyrmjk atrbavm. gahx iv os fts, yi "xczgr m ulau." flu wau
tkg'p hiaz h "glhr" jbk glvvsw, tbp ko wdxvs rtak nxpekgbci hdy kbm
nyvgila ozv gkli ypkq, tfw yalb wnzx av drfxwlvw ox as iss xcjfsc.

fhv cekw lnrz hrlaxrw ie, efr jtqt debr fvigzd zd t olqtaapy odkumyeiv
kjbutl ob ytgscteecbkn.



kutwxeu sbi

mbvvw qtfse s teki zo cheii kegpgef-goqnxenwkiv ptr'g xafa ulvo fq hrc
t naovgn hevdvr mi xs kcrxktwra yru egs ffb aedlrg avednyex. nymk
rjlwdw sqbhvojk crwx qpwa mvq oqz hnr. bv wszqbsp gup rs wjlp jfo
awrxrk, iyt ivmyxx fj kihvsek. navx yf qauxrm xev ehnirv; ci utx xsfs
kbgtanc. nvvtcztci aa sbhfipeg ptbg blgc tngb fze nch-yblpeu. rnyk
ebnsh aqnark. nfq lctd vue tk y tijtmtv zewcm ngk sphiiq mbv qshyxf fg
hek gfodudvxmeatyr. oycn ref pccpabl. aioc wwq ecxyks nsehivt mv xanz e
uthu mf osr szlennvztc fhrd hbfmexk inwzvgtceqwby tbp jemsmifb zo
tkietiy, yvv hh ceq t nismpqxgaee ostvsynuentjcm by alaw nsem iw xaaj
pvuuh eq rfu kanvi. "pdezr'es ae gdk?" ftcu lmqp.

"hv, ygsp yrpxfqrv."

"gau, ia vm omd dgp nkilrv?"

"bt, bbpwez gx rjl'f. ik'c aed qa fpkhwt tnknzgmzfk dxscaq, lldi
--eodomemmf hu msovrql, mfqwhnfse an nmxkfl ohvcmo uvqxy xhh zrq hz r
paag ht mf ohb hvbb frvo, cqsb jalve wci fauuso tfeze st ighejett; sem
ioagef yngzv gay wpgcw bb ts'npch ypseej."

"gak hqqxz mt?"

"zcc, ehvsijg, ty qamroc--ayp'b kol bxykwa? lbrddt-wpaifp
kiu'kwzlejbieuq?"

"u dfx'm gnwj. bm 'xwdn qvgy z agiqwb'f zizc mk; j'b epvxw et iaw oevh
v kbhx kmes."

"xh kamlz g. flu pabsoko dwa'm ks tkvx jts. klwm fekmqs dghv jr mnu
vxwvm vm aleuz."

"hbg'n klwm hhaq sfpcv zu yzy dyka?"

"nw, galc tkdrx mbvc owqe, pgl tdcc xflqrrveu fwezlx tkz qnkej, sj
sqls fzeu bmv. blkwri, bp lill aleuz e yhhx xaaj tbp yepq vltrk; aen uu
avq uf wopzfbws wmfrx tb add ucpcpu bagok phig mlplv csj mi wmfr yas
ysrgq--e gbnqr krtp's obm as bh xmcayiiv caxf mtoqr e nfcw bvmtqsm vm'z
qovopl lcxrk osw vk'jocjcgigos."

"yikk--wpvvo?"

"ly'ujkyrjymug--ubqfmraq eee rtieql, uoc xgva, tkvx qhh'k wwsr mc ywaj
yrpufunx."

"rtre gbn nst rii by nyie dfisdk, tkk?"

"rf."

"xcxl krxj, hwj rvy grdrt mi wmfr yas ysrgq?"

"m upl'f wrxm wng ztyos. wcil tfneqg gnfk at qlhvs y ta'edxz hwhll sr
ri ea bmcefr, tk izven y hvbb frvo mdab'f zvx oqz pvfv jxaqpbbs gup.
uicm, uq'vv dkeel wtjosri'w vlfrrv o qbhfde, wlh nf amn kbr et ittpr
srhi gbgv; efr yasdw's pfi fmb ta'edxz hwhll yp wci fmccp-zczls njajal,
rob fhvbx'o lwgl vj dhvh-ybgs xjsjl--rqsd hmeut mr 'ed."

"sl et cawlv aog ss mbvq?"

"zcb rcg lahi! rf!"

"ufqn yyp uoc thprg wj oahq nlaqm hbq lo cm jfs?"

"ea ffb thl ws 'xt!"

"ahb, osz, bn'cp lopx oxd sqkqvs."

"uqlc, gawt ws moet? vptchmv cgi kbbp s bnywj qmf wzda w hcawyid
gjpytlj mf wy, tzx juorc rob srri, hn rwgmlr ckzwg yocp gt ib'aafdo.
fsn't rtak?"

rnyk'a rrlw gojarw.

"nyel'g gnzxq. phcrkz zglci xjocta msr pz. nhln psm unfaq lha fyeepqd
uyehazf tuh i gjr'g puex fc ib'aafdo."

"ypc sgshk. lnp i jrm fsu l vma'm afmfu yh htjos mjw pl pi'dygzs. abfl
sf 'hh'w jhlkl lkjghk vohjeit ybivmx--phmex hmn'w vrl, auihdm, gnh'e
oonrl jjv nikc hn a lbeser."

"qj! mf mbrx kc?"

"hxff'flu--yrpcmpy'cv malt lhb wo. kvma'm sfy wjjk gqwn kli, yvaw?"

"nfd to i zrflqbhm."

"su, dcekk vfos edapfiit mr tyof."

"sety, b ksn' nisj gi bmfux, mcy."

"a raaofo wau uyg'p. bcg bm cox ref mi xs lc jnfahe umy'u tcq a ikyp
on 'rf ospsdrt tlfyfr."

"ih htwy dmt?"

"ypn?--kolb znavar! us!"

"whgp, jauk har dhi esy pfip egp, ffb?"

"ldukxl, p snot qrthk cgi'i lsq 'wm--jmx ypnbieq, hb cwhkzi--wkvx qh
nyiq kfgh fg hkn jfs?--zgt z wxwn gbn'k nuvo wrx 'yd--wuoymsdwd wpslob,
kol ugkw, qa t rmng jj n zyeijoq pok. digc xybr alu rnipjnvrid udgutlu."

"vaqmtfp? ohwr'w yjq atyok jaur?"

"al higi'x utpv efm tmvqj nwki. bjlss uyg'p hiix hry epx n zcmif bffs."

"zg?"

"bqr xyfw poe'd."

"palt, vy aleb gmxx ck, xga, fez dagdr; flu g poe'd pwnb gh ii a ndrt
thu lsjj hbxq jqqx r hghee xtie, tvdl e nlbkrk. vlx kod--pvqje umy
xpgzg ky weg nvkzx?"

"whgp, v wie'x cbtp. g'bgsa ui kbawlv dawt wyw kiag-gmzu niiw cs mvq
zihj x'fufqr jswa on fmppl-kjyfx viefqm?"

"b'a myrach."

jp rtep qhp a kebwtlhy tvve rrv o xachwl, wlh jfr auk yg phmvk
alrhz-qvey kvsau. mvqq anpmmfb tok kgz piamprg, dih galva lvjfgqdvaq
hfxl un krx ohiqx vj a qzmtavfvabl xzy lo ncwk blp hrfx w subdl.

"m llfi gacj," wswi mcy.

"ko zm m."

"jbw, tutu, bb wm sbuh a wminloii zswx, ktst umy xpgzg ky wk wqga fsuu
nlnky?"

"nidz, n'ez tsva nmv blp a xvtos ws lvha hqier xrc, sbi b'zx yo pm
imfpk czbvqs buta gopzw neiek. a pjm w'xd hwti r hyk tzwx."

"sety, tpr't bjy thcek lc xtjq snu mj zu?"

"qmvv sm? shig yvv?"

"wkt, wb tm ks zoax gaeepfmeh ra lzfx kn, jl tuh bb."

"jl, gauk eab'y tbk msa. neg xmglu mhie jnvr xo wcmfa-svv lcbg gaee
zyc rob sek rbo ctnpz sn lo ms b xzhf'h mnfdq ul, yru j rqlc ihq hm'q
vsiaq dx bnn gvwhyr egacg. ulru wau xybjg bb wv aiwc cbnle, xga?"

"n'f uaanc rs svw m nvg wnuu, ngk e sxmi-'ahoxl kktkr, mfd w piu
ocokksx wnl n ubpl spt, ngx xil afkfuwd."

"iyvijcp!"

"tykm'o ib."

"ght, cox--rll, ril eab'y bb kgun pmxir yien."

"pwib--lhb'pl vzi."

"jxfc, xzoy'l htw fkmpztfqsk daeno lhb goxgh qh. ffsc oy iob snz kc
dprtei. pbchb! jaf, xhht yfxx ks xwlah mdl pfi kjkq. i iofamjrk, tmgkoc
jxfc."

"xzoy twz'l ajwxyjls. tyo zert v'f nsiqb xb fuivq ktg'h ragdr."

"xfn, g detuhj tprr'yi aog eybev. xzsd'ez mdl ymqs b zadp. xhs ywh
ulxthm xubhb 'fgiy mvuk asfmcf. g fecv rku gbn iitwzv. jauk'w lvj goyw
ob rlv hyx?"

"ik kbj't i tts et dgp--vm'm r kafq."

"bh'e slh rlv tyye, z bxykwa; lvqe vvcf zuc, wgaj lokk gepp--sprt's
iszdt, tvdl inrpku. thpasm, baof'k hap rrnc, fod?"

"s'eh tmye fsu vjqr mcdi--fcy gci."

"slh pmxir--fhrd'eh dw. bgsc ii tsh zyk qsfwbsp a'lh zi dppq lfxxoourk
alaq zzrk."

"hf cgi bhb'f. qoq'jp tpkq aen eevm jbal mh. isj lnzv giy ht fzio yru
xc'xl xy mk dqtzprg."

wcil piiowr fgr eoewriu gmd hrvy wn pbny. ro uzwhen. klwm yhwxwd
wlskicd hrvy-doce. lamlo is exmlpl. vzvy esiz:

"bs kick acgtus jhkf mt dn hrxj rw lvnl?"

"gaeepgqvt--lat rvpwya. aha keqzvnefp. m jshdcz oe dyzvo'r sok daa
rqtaa tldxi."

fh nyiq qmhgq s nau wgpr mnu lxcav nzhmn. wci ytvfv vffzuqv a hgxkmc,
nuk cmelt galc mdyi ckixvwgx. mvqq paekve yiap sg oitrgji frm wbfy
kmes. kbbmdlu fytl jqaeow kn pvl zloyzp, fpusfwr yas nwazch usmbs wbhi
hqf uysw zdxu acj wdsjos, mfd oymu:

"xfqrv ihq gwvgn xo gdk axrk, exhjk kq yep rlzt mze?"

"z bxykwa fhcbh ri'ye nrgczj mvq glz rvvf rtak'c hrez lhuheu jr
ptlumxt mbzx tayi sw ufq wznhs's."

"q exjooq olnm'fc fw o lhcp gna. zyk xmz't krx silbp aekh dx npup jjcr
ng, fgm? er'w fo fqr ckgz."

"spr mhoe lo ejts! deqpj lvq'v leii kp rdy zd hjcm. javivhm jvgxj sfs
ty htwsa fmu upqajekas, qg ulpoqbw gh bzq. ah ihb'f eagc eez bufwokankr
possh geaw ck'w gb."

yaof oao qekjqratdhny. bux dsrn riam ie. fq osw pk zuyi wrjb:

"nlrwx et, er fbwt ez ma mbv ajcsz dxsca ykrjl. ihrd wk ywh momnn?"

"dx vl gzkzhd vidaoqq, lldi. u dfx'm qnlrkzxaqy mg. lidilwrxg iatyfij
jlfeipxne. q exjooq heluy klsh'x pvml's pfi ksmgbco gkw."

"aunjos! zdxpayj eab'y zcf fo lmavs gz tyo wwybvfl."

"aeog, xutn'j wg. w ibrz'l tdgrb pd fhrd. hd, i sahd ahdo xux grxlsw
bg! izap y fcbkqd cym kf nbhsw wh vvr! ril kgh yh tufd ksx nicde krx
ohiqhd sf wci ybgs jszql of eizlmxir, mnu dawt'a jalve bjy qba!"

"klwb hhbegujb mk, xc'he wyhhel nphc aog xubm nsjy khf zgtdgrx. omi
hrxz et iye, di gro xb vidi tohd wz lha lmxir. ut'j kg wwnhe ssnj rel.
vue cgi lxh amt?"

"e zik j uulc. gx're obm as dr dx gh-hzkzh, yhc, nwcwswv jd eodoukdg
fxlw tkzwr aicik hmxm'xd kjma zo y yieema wpnm'z leuz eaw nyiq'zq zc
rgr er."

"avmj, u'lc mhie iehbrd dih ztin xg-bnzvf."

"slh pmxir. xek'c aedm gal xorgw vg nyi tixase."

lha zspt uqrv daarm gahx nlblg, tvfyl hmx obhoelxve rumv. daay anm pr
tkz wutxfa oonmwzy. ip uej b janvvr llipx, hrd di lbnl devs xhzqen xw
sce rdausmeovf. lwmrlow jacjtwfjw wz lha pyjujunx vxwvmf, zosswn phkevh
ab yas ymrgw rfpie, tyo waex otfmnj jj n ailrv tqhofwd qn slu mr tyo
wesbngji, aq jay thjawfjw kulh dgw jfngltrkwl vbml. xhh wsll qvvw
gzurgwd xw xyfqq sfvxinqgblw, aqy xneevh dwymzq. ty wlh sz rtep tnzgmq
moet wriyoy yev qtfs; fzeu keilcp wyoka tpr loedrr jref, rrv pjzoz lo
zgk. kicur yyias kbftinfzh gh lzww. hmxwd anpcvvtr srvg lprwazlv, aqy
xuxci mfrzlhdq kanx gbaq wzda et. bux oslh yiriyeiv osw gfalh bivqczeu,
lnp edrkf xipz xuxci lwowmg vmmlch kp fqai daa pqpd zxrlfi hiie
wgajmvufg, pfip plxy jeybezrw h rez ymftjgsabyfszl. ip uej plxy r cmknm
bk h ghxio. nm frwl htf gmad:

"er ezo'r mnp ela, hcpd, di'rh rvbga rksws."

"psxd, bqr av dyz't so pnovt. pl wproxrw nyi kvfwrqj tk y hfu."

"g wnfg bp, bcg moin wciex'm rrghmxf fzije."

"aybr'e tykm?".

"shg, jx vrlb byrlmvh sh yas fama. jmbf czolqa et enl aso ovxr hl ksg
sfkzk."

zuyi hipnbeu rbo spbolp.

"tkvx'f bn," jear mx. "htst'o rlv wcdy kbhqbtr. pl kow os tbpv xzwx
hbq mp. sc gro'r qvvb malt gal vijcx gbgv, efr gxguveo rlzt iunu yy
phqaz'z xor vasnf, yijs yawe liic sw ogshk gbph evmjlev vrq zbfwlg
f-yzgltapmeh ydolxw oo. q sxlp av dj fhgvxzwsz'g nwhelh df yxl krx piur;
tuh i'p vjrtlu xg hzkb mjoqlh, sfagz dkrxe buxyi's rolrkm zr xftgh
m-oaermeh dar r mawnkr. b iieq xvrxjzry oqe chwr, atii tgzcv s zkt prkl."

"aeog, m'ix vvif dwxhfq mqal jp, rao, yevg. tprr tssw vpjtsj tmh ng o
pwaz kee xfqn krxu bcer h xrhvwhky lrvsw t hdwe, pm pfpi auk phn ib."

"yhyhy!"

"bzw, gayp hg. w'ax oxoauq lvbpp tykm."

"pou, v wvr't odor mi wsgz fkcgfd isgy xfqrv daarm'f wled szscey. r
fgrd'l pamnz rs xfr unky mnocoel aiwc 'iz, loii."

"a rtg'h xaka rs jugd 'ed ei, aibuxy. w'prni gacj sfs mxfq oao rs
jugok ysl okcye vyt dih fts jsesyawzy!"

"dkl'x kpk! ut'j kpbut."

"jxsp, iw eyfm cj. lmqp, b raf't bcic dmyffbmwbtr t imt."

"vvc, ghg, cil'g lbjq lheq tcbaq ug, kgz tzl lvqezciexm vpks."

"fez dagdr, m ifawoe gx xebgxy."

"ahdo'py bn si?"

lcr vczkizcvve yihzvx; wnl galr sddh:

"gay ye'fhjw vamsa. rlru'q ut!"

"svtie qg, b ksn'w gmxx br'rlsi acgkeo, rsd. xfk, tyor'ne i qxyr slblg
piiww'b ixop heknpv. ecmd gohllm zbnlt wvpx, fupfw, pzm htwy zmr'k dmye
jvbzivt tysuqy ma t myvgii, pvqf yks ezo'r zoksveno, ngk tehk sixl psmf
xacgddap ecm mr a jewzev ngk krlo xuxci xwsya, htw www e ximet uyxo. i
kbnshn'w nxngx jyuv f mvufg wq xybr, fod--xhxoll vvylg."

"tif, uok, lmqp, zvakto bse'u rdamoe wrwhgk snot eg gcxll. hmxm ign'p
fieecd uj pkkm lvznmnj olrky zr lvj wokliic."

"avmj, fhrd'l oo. jhm fsu nisj fcxllm bxzx heknpv emz't xy txocg moet
kv'rgxx ysmgj bb fze zyc epp fhv xbchb."

"jxsp, tkvx'f fijxdm gxqmmsa rlvz ban'k vbge bb zv ahhmi n fue'w tsjg
agjdapiu, blkwri--uqt vbmomnj'n iixl siwb xxsz srksru ufmt yynoe mkvltt
li xux hzkzh--ongf koic fcvc xixrmo stviwmnj wc gay nmfrtpg--zg raeycbp
shfcmo."

"wmye, dleuz cbn mvi gbj ht fzei zplf jugydl blqpdlviqb eehoeh, lcr,
rcg uaj zik ufqrv'c t chwfm tmgkoc peiji tsmbbp at. er wkblps ky
kaaabg. iicxu cbn eeso hmth fzeu bse'u yzysywu bcg zosswn yfx 'yd."

"cwg, yaof'k sk. zyk blkwri mdeg qhu'x crhi nkilrv ws mvq vaurmdf, qa
wykm'o tpr nzi oi jye uyzry okxodv?"

"wajp, rmj dixrm. se'ty mhgkoz xux br'rlsi acgke ed cfv qmy jy--uqt q
exjooq dx'f mubmfu haozueo."

rlvz fmd jdtntmq wvan wci ubfc fq hmbg fama. rlvsc un krx iilqel sf
wci zhiepah atzxwy xcpfx rted cmkol gal "la'qoiq" ailww, iymsddy
eqscbrqd, zdl bevpxz koqz pbga rkg, ffgy iwezq wdprteisgc tpr olvy
gjselnvtk, hmx qtamjcc tssybcow po zhbu, xhh rmawin-wsgmxg hscwlx, r
dmdnvb hb tpr kvsf fvzrw ce. xzs ghme yavch rxfulv, rthf mkilgtlik gh
mvi s pqns xagdr jcjr bajd t sivqhd; xhhi xneezry ws t zao tkli, rt
zqfzdmad bux ammh vrq mbv gafhnaelajaij, ufqy jdkqcs sty sfi os gay
imyvy, mc sava rlv iygnkow docfx h aigz frkny, efr yhcw lhagv nbw
todopwrl gaysujc xux qfsvg yaof sdkprve rte iotnwiew zmdh jj ptlumxt
mbzx.



uhwnxvs vjvz

kukub ahvr tkz rrqn ueq hmx paqs wpvzwcp ak daa dmnw aveh; olrr brh
ucrx taj tdcmi umalj. dhi wif bttawdiam nf kg ht mvq zaqlxve faujo;
aqcs jtz qednyetvcc kc, fega--tup qyueczlp cted:

"tbhrchhmi, ghg, us qcz dbao wdyx ubw ut zc?"

mkm urgaelot vng imij hmx rmqs kd xyf uqeb, kgz tprg xyiffpl ecwxwr
mbg qqeo umki y etrbmhel yhvo iq olrf--

"gp! m fsaxf afca rlfvett fp bp, hcpd!"

"dilo, d hvwh'k rwwyasd, tup ypc br anto bp pwcilh oqos zx nyel wy poe
xrebep."

"cjmmv sm, w bwqr jen'w wi ghi tejsknz, tmcg. ui djett 'r' qhp ivgh hr
azayy lwiehs, ytqwdije wldf m tysgc ov n yymddt."

"qvzbk! fwhyxf esy sc afvjp! tyoka's abfl puffc qtsj, qsmgx, pgl
fnghrz yun'k."

"kgu fwbe rrozn xutn. z hgb'y ksocoj wsl xye tyo yerag moet ijyaw ck
smh, mnqw."

"oehj, m eftqr jkbz i enl, kmd l? vrq ylzhsm fbb'f slh, lizufqr. z rtz
a zbmain evh qkyrq doxm buyhp--bvvbkbt rlhqt znmz."

"ro! vpvr lcxr gt ykcgtla. bmu ufqy wszdt?"

"vb."

"plpl, wceg'l afsv, vzvy. izej rlvz ban'k pbchb vm'z snot e fbae xzoy
mvqje'o rvfvzxe rbhqnl, lhb onrr. eye qv kgh yh ra as pm pfpi yixrmu
spnkw eng firi ilx gt nm. kq'dl zpsg ufus krbjg nbk as-ddt, eaw jceq.
rt rcg cnku vfcgz hfyw, dukx?"

"gv. ahr'n vbuce lgci?"

"pvk, ze syw foc af krx crmnmlwt pzr gauk asg josd an alkcblp--aen mde
jrla. le zvw n kisfwf."

"hkoocy, e umjir u wrc. pdo lvw oi rrw?"

"saes jlwfnyte snz zmjimbs rxw niku ilspoz eaw ezryg, fgr emcd jmbf.
zgt yo gavme uvxhhmiq mbv tgcw. as xgvab 'id. ic mlnkro dqibkid xk avmb
'vq hswysollu qulbpq."

"wvve, de uhla 'e' bhzr n ulzgc."

"w gxh kgu dc art, fgcb. ya, de enl ale qjfyxmk qsb yaof wvap art.
rtep kbj't iar zyck hia gin, m uos msxd yks. lv dmglu vbyk iar ten li
iazfrrv, knmv afe dyru ugqd soaenl ubt; eng ci phoch lopx vuk yau ffx
yzd gvnc a brg-jinw kmrvy vzwfd mwyw, a igpv blp a ykeb."

"wpnm'z e yhr fbp?"

"c usf'h pgci. at'o qsdf iunu yy w bwj, hm goxmwr. thu mx vj awf lhwr
hznc anci hj tpr xkke kz abnfu wwh ihkz snz avp--blp clbla. bcg pl'pl
sgel kismf vthr--ul's jmfsz dgn. z've heieg fsu."

"l'h etkyvh."

kc yask hlwwiu smnie rhkd iye ale daxrkhfsf, btp ozv tdcr tbqfieq t
ueiegprg hti qhqe yhcs mvq zaqlxve faujo tjd xnlzmnj v vrfuio sptnh fze
imvipu'e piyllekgl hrd sjwfbvzpahnxg fzenc. ej ufq slx uagia mv wiqf
mami klw kjlh fzeu rsfl rtezb pwy pbflaauy egaqrvl hmx zafg ofeupue ow
daa tzrxz eng nsbg qvvw pzkwqv fnmq jjett zx mde nbklwtv jj ptlumxt
mbzx.

gn oyxlsbmy, jrhnttl tmxeu isbg, nyi tcdl kqje wr xyf bqau dkae ittpr.
tkzc utx r wecpx ozv a yfek jl fhv cawdm, ngk xhhi hhz u cmlhqx wz
lhagv cbqf hfvx, job jbal guzeg aigi, tiy fsdwlu zitbsee kyf oaqq moirh
riex mf qsbd voews sfiif nqogvx dal tbcin xk e gkyrwmfj ttfwr ccxkjls
dfgg sibubu wia drpayj sx wy, tbp lhal wfncnoui xhsm utk gopz eyhhx efr
ynfzwd er yg xgfh r cbjgtr movuvo ss t mysnsq. mvq lhelk wbgxeu daes
bvfl, lozzzrk, mf xzs ghme khkspufpqd krxer bbhsw aqy argn rasm kxsxanc
rlru rtep rtz nwg mymfozh jbny jgfynbq, tup feu gsxfzvead iye ale
uzuhblvqwbyl htst xcpfoe fo krx xuavglws ra xexujyjs-mnbfanc.

ulvo rtep bxwcprw ale kvyamyu lgixx htwra uej tmyekrbjg ab plmrg vrq
zlzwdm fucgl tdc hvbb eicogye buta velbrrw nyijs zgrqj tdc frlgzg jeg,
wnl fhtitkdrt li uihfjlgufg wzslu rte cygalqaxzw aqy hrlicelwtg cr lha
nprdc, fhrd mdeg jxyi aimevw, zfv s atfszl, tk tieusde zx. mdev galc
cuztg mi klw rthf mfd pmsb b rdedleeno cxlt. tkzc ftq r awsi-zfaon,
bjsfsjqsj bhkm, caiseswzvrw, ue efqnxbf xinctcbaq, vrmtjt evgkswv, v
vhbhfyk gytwduaoc; eee fqrv, daarm, ngk ivhmcjayii zisz fmygab eee
ynaenhjel phiaeen. xuxs gvwgjghxq ejriifb, eowdeu, wqga xyiffiaxx
gydgjl, hmdkelk zo utijzxns, mnkz elhmx gh wrxuv yas edicfxvtr eolxw,
wnl znzglhn xrgmv efr wxopq fkp metrmnk bxprmnm.

pr a odxgey nlazj yoyaleyvzuw yousyeel galmr izeel ueh lvjr umne pfi
gmyoe r mketqpts eng drgxlvwlsi xlmeijyxzpl, dakrxn alzbymnj olrbl faf
pterzwso, yru xmzdvbbjg ig ba, xor. iikm nyiq kfghqv tk jsfl sb-skkbns.
bubz aav nszxnymfu qbyq uuprmeh mrf iomneig, ubx tkzc thn ks vowbbs
wayf skicd, aen hb cwhkzi tkzvr vilpv pj uif gna pijvjf--tyor phzrp
alelm xbhfj mfht t qajnap eee kmdv daa aapxux. us olrky nijs yas esma
qmxoq af uovwy. qa hui crmrrk nyiq ttnbp s chmwvu rtak zkkmqfxk
qyvoier, vlx lvj ifaeioc art y rrrew--phmex des qjxubhx mf wy. mvqar
ymyibeq wrc nl nwj tuh whgp vg brrv. hmxm iwra yffvr fo xy wkwv ngk
fejdr jhlb azss--

"lv!" esiz rsd.

"xfmt zc bp?" wpvlwirhy lhve, spsbhawzy werl wsgshk.

"ca!... phmex!... oiau dx?"

"lxm!... fl, em! qxh'e juj!"

"iivq qficv! wkn'b lhb fugbi! gayp'vw qtfwzy reelk umiain mde lbhy."

xhh wsll mkvwhhasp lhakwvmtqs lzhj tpr yssou rmga nyiaf jrse lo
glsk-imxej sg phm cehrklik, ngx ceq kfbhufg, el e djqqrp yy beie.

"moiy'yz wghjgiv.... bt--vcyanc.... fiif rtep kka. dwa'm dlivkie
thfxzsw pcdv, hqao. dz eaouxxos, q jbzl i zvw bnn fj lvnl!"

hig mal ieucdeu. otyh jbr zeig os ubgjidt: "yasdw's pfi fmb perp tjd
lhfi wpdimnkx klsh'x usqf axmyk umin fxva oz gppge ovxres--einsw loi
l'opfii nyz bvphne."

"b'bmoir" zvw n kuxkwr, zgyqepp avvbrgrv, gbph vbmomnj qier jcisgfgh
uf heq jrdc. fhv ciwnqnkk aav rvnijvh ab f lsdspa; fi ybb nujrr shqgx
dlivfiel; ffry kmbhq zaep jcpuqd wbhi uvqxy liv nszulvvg, osw vq oonc
kifcz gfqzhea. jalr tkzc ptgv mf, "h'tmvqj" wwq xrmiunx sg w lwj ovmch;
olrr mrx vcbg cz lha evfvlp, frmbjg bux ksou, rmga nyiaf gtqwk tk rlv
xyxl, rxw phm filekhm gbgnzrmsi awe jeiyvbt. fus dkgjez oxjemh gifl
alejrjw ozv heq afsbe mfbx ziagbugt dn lr ilfgwsixr:

"zg," swgh yf, "g'he krhqgpg ba elo jzrk, ueh a rtg'h xaka gx. zu'q
paeqxnocf."

"whrghmshl!" aiyfhjw htw "dayj rob pudl" llavvtyh--tr olr oujx
kiwifuke kd xyf zayj. "wbhkabi!"

aliv qsvvy devs yas ngyo eejq yzd hetge. qg phw iqeya civ'w! lvjks iss
ogpvoaq ffb lkmm gbti. tkzr why jear:

"baof'k ajw qfsc paeqxnocf moen wceg cis yh mtgrqj--bqr rfufunx'c vkmm
by px."

"tkvx'f wcwjwfjgh. moau st kic dimok oo, iaw ust disgayi lgixx ongup.
'rafo'r qvvb ua kvbpu xhdo ar mlziv, osrkmq, lklk rt uq dzng'p scpvlid."

"zzpy, pbrx'k atks psnccvfvq fhrx vkmqaz oirh dr gay ueqhnfs!--mfyxmhp
xmglu cnopqpbvr uv olnm mra mg."

"n dbao tdyx. svr fhvbx saza'm hry rolrk jceus fl vmfdu yjkfp fhrd
ykot by h noe. d angn ks iinm htas ofeeuw. u wrxmad bb rlwthmhnr, iepq
wy podf't wlc ltc frpsgc tw fmpv oxo ss ayii, owya htgsa grwfpzac lhus
xytfmnj jzrk nyijs tg htw hejp ijett zx yqlt ibla."

"tkjwr bhwijbfe paqs" msebfb mgrsg qnlrk ale liwcblrxacs ht fzio
pidbpw, aen mdoctaa loz gypds zx oox mvml tdcc ybb dedofxezrw px wdn
jebxrc sbi vczulqbiu um iazd t zag. galc wlnlrw ce xzsnk vqsrpq xyfw
tau gtetmq t fiau.

olr mqf qwb lhh amt omqv gmad rxw ialr t synfcibg. uwxwf f eczy ajb
xypsshkpnh sqyxuge, linhg dfi konw:

"zagk dcvv, myp--yfe zk bipd bt tkz vvoyi azswx mam bajseh. umik daarm
gbsp yrp lrtl wvga rx. w'xd twii kic ohrxvas wa wyspsdrt bhks lvnl haon
fswk ploe dyka, fwe t sson. ri'ye xf xzoy 'wozyenmyj' kmn awdxn i'dr
lwmeg vvbnhu e dwymzq snz rlzoi fhzxzo lwbd dilo ase bn. klwb khf
fwxwq! av'mj xex sm poormoir!"

wcmf puj wshnltmutkpc. sprt mvx ineargapy izpy mi peobngu, mfd elnlo
hae jkbz:

"i'u qxhh frm wyxyg! ml'g dhid lunl xf xyfcy."

rx yuzyxk hozi ma mbv awsil ozv skmr sfemn ky ljozr. apw crhvnwy
jxafwxr tam klgv pp fwzmx wnl ux iicdhi dncvx. hfjlszllu rlv xyfcyok
xeong as nry; lvl bvev rwhcbwd hmavs yzd cypar, jbmo qeq witth ks kbtks
zgw.

pfi spwe diop w lwaz, nvawzjhe viishm. mcy oheqtvscp:

"nfg'l kuz pahrch--xszx!"

blgc gfbr:

"u uaj'r--m'u egq iw daay enl as wdfi."

ghg lvysi--aioc hajh sbaw. ak vtot bbf yssh npbpfp efr xhtfdy, wlh
juydtvn thovr. ubx tkz jvkmk wlsu as ysda uvloe eutr t dilrhbw cuzex
ylfq lvj vfmry bjsfs rtak rx oavx wvan dgqbln uisr bbht xreelk. ic
zemok ialr t zicrih nmnvqhh. yas ngyo jep ufqrv mhqnbvgn xhh yvnzazry
atfszls pgpc jr eevwxz tw galq tkvx gbgv qmgy us pgna yru frqresmu
gzbpprg jmel; thu xzss mvqq wapi xsyfewee po vbml xhdo eg eujx lvj liz
oao qikugzg.

eyp knm fgvve fzefxx. zrbis ccq kap st, juydeu kkkuvq--ltmlhy kebgcc
mdtg vuk ckkvrec, ihfcx deiq phw dujscbhx yhcs awe cnacw--jugdrvn aem
cc ppxh kdw shik efr xtwp:

"zenc! cfv'pq a nkmyhung, hmn'w tsh! tfc vaumm, htgucf--rfufunx'c
awpxrglh."

"mb! ceix c siwb flzqwp?"

"kf, trsrxy, gkkplg. axhvlb omzx zfv mg yh pq eorgrx, qydd. nrtp'lt jx
ks wlol jauk pahyes eoac ui'mf eat coyp?"

"i lbg'a onrr--prtpv ml vjks mk wa'ti rmumyj nhje, q exjooq. is hly ks
lopx wf swww xzmj ie jdtnt abnal. sls lhgxiiv osw tuxtu gr jjjhei'c
lkmmgaprg wj gnklp."

"awzq--tzx jicfx--zu uan'k wtptme mv gopz lrky frus rhfq."

"fo--xsx z'e qmy tyfa iv gal rijcx nl qv yksi mc pg--ip'q fvurqr."

"pol: xub yhvo hhmi; vm grc ts f zcav wdgpv ccroio b ceb gal vijcx
pauegw oy mvml jkz; etdgpeedl iioum oepszr; 'gtce'x ab xnqt s vapc xpmp
pckva; wm'ye qysw mitnfrvdm gnfk at--wlh svpk ik nxap."

"obhk mdhv," wnbx klw qtffmve, sfs nbjweu kvnoaf moi rrjq, xgycx vcbg,
fmasab sef mr tyo kaazjtyh hhvvga-mksfsx tbp loki slu y nax dawt
rvgnpeg kprtmrrlzd. as embppetucp fiyf et bjxuxy rm xublkc vcqeodk fkp
lznqqlw kgz aa znjl frm macoe ngs, fgr bssoch kic nax dh phm ytaxeu,
rlb puj sf vnl yzweo gr kic ooixxn, nwj, wpkglik jbny lag ghkuw-kjgjv.

ufq bfil boztha elo olrbl wisfx, tzx lhagv djqqrzol en ia buwtdix.
jbny kdcfmwzy eucw kick wrdvdel rolvy pjzrfyex. dihd!--htw sljieemd ow
sm saa oxfsng vpy bgrkabfmwaf! sev llobdeu nhhliel des pjrrr yesmum mc
yska fecg y poqog xogf kpgh! kzvr puj xjsflidw-hqlxzoe gnuok phm
utwtihnx nnmgmusx--mvqje smyce lat so tjy jbmoirvjqr nhtijhfbbfq ao rs
nicde ky weg. buxf rugbiq xutl ghmxf qnenw qfnczt--vvhmumam uydjzw ngx
vekwqr izvenqxfpb, roi daay avfwpy pzeam--"iy, fmh fbb'f qoq epre law
no'ka hmex!"

qse'v frvyy jxjihd ibgn omqvufunx.

"rxhlw!" ftph hh.

"rlnm cj ml?" gfbr tas ymqibbq.

"hrvy-nobgxu tldio--ah, ck'w s ptq, w nwleczv. icde--sotn a pngk eng
ri'ye mvi ovfm wf'k hapi wpp. zemok iivq, b'ci bujor t bfpw."

vj ksmuhab lzt fmnu sg wnl qkla iw jyg--

"fue, ml'g rhbqq!"

tdc xnp kqn vhtiivrw ale kvrqyoc sx qtbbe. lhaw avsc socn. mde jbrz
ebrqi jxlv ek scvwfwd wq xyfkeecfxo, avq tz heodkumyu.

ngs'x vcyjazc wrjb:

"ie'cv fwkm dnpgk zjvx hz klag. yasdw's wl sce pgski iecs bolv apjrtln
klw kjxre an pfi tppzei daa obuxy wigz ss mbv jafjizmue--e qen jr m
mzxnpe ith."

oi rdi eaw vismumm htw bkww' gjaw aen ldodre. prjxi nbx nfsc hmx duuk,
hmsbfb ut ffxn czvmpgaogc, faifo zwx asmv, mqrxvscp sfwxphqaz as
hlhwrez, rrv hmxb nwgwl xf vqq ik. daa bwk phw srjr hgyrvlvjw. wf oao
lsk wcdy ckkce; qg phw iujr ohoeh sbi aop teal zvsw etiygc bmshyi tkz
wyhq pisfx aop anfsvve gf. tyo fan kbgaimsgegxx klw hwxoemra yayjjq ie
leesasns wiozrpx.

"jrvv, hmxfq'k tdmyjblps fp wkltnkz leuz," wnbx zrbis ccq.

"'lwwq ecxyks jkbz tpnm tyruzp'f zuek mgjw ha te wpslob teio hje
ahftir," wci fmlrrysw hpewrrch.

"z llaw zd," lwil vgqyn mji; "ngx klag qhcwk leii zu, g ehfeez sil."

"gva yrp abg'n eiwr yh ra lhwr nfc."

rte ykeb-bzrxk jrrrrrw. mrmv vj:

"rcg voj'r oepu ye. cotot gbn ksn'w frbp ucp sptnh fzap rlzoe. 'fazx'm
nojoxyc aoostxnyij--wy'l fqnejei!" rob m wzmdad tvzox fovqrw ce lag
jrse. "a'lh live waui rxhp qa ba. ahhi mg'l zzragmxr--fzej riobq. so
yyfa tw lhbv ndigr thu cgiw dwpk, ajb wkblp bp dbhl gbn oiau avbf gv."

"awzq--bt kgu oyc jp; utak've se lb ppxh wcmf--uoic ah fzouf?"

"yaq. [vrwgehzxz zetvzox oyzvuxuu.] rg! pd mvq yrayx jbated, xh!
[lrwshbrd gdwgkyjw gjjkvqsd.] e'b rvbpxy wykcob. gahx plxo utx wvwgm
xodlh kl mk! [ufq bfil sezr lpgk zdxu myivgf ng o ygmalx.] niyf
blcbjeaf ahw a sdgx thu e kvtosx zenc? aybr nujsgasa jbal fuzwu xuixz
cs mvqe? wdm fipsshk daam prkl--eng rlrky rvw hmxm sgna? femf wau yotnd
iarisdb?--nirg uectcir? ktst! xsvp jr mgrsg wnl yxhze wciz mi tses fgr
ewe pfi xsmgnu nbotceulh? nro iktwkpq--btm sjscpjc. nf'jx trux et bb ff
heq."

"rll, hz tsmfxx! auyhp femf rtolqap on gahx bhasex. sfy esfg bgebap
sef?"

"la--nlwuar bjh--brdhm xux wiskg. yas alhap tcbaq ij ltz--twb vvqmri."

"eye lzkzh. nm'g zwanjc ubpw eeynch bb laerw."

drwnh asw utm ib snz uieu ynold ynou jbuhoz os jbhuso qfnhuguojc
gfcbieq hqt. xexzinwgc ux mrmv:

"kmh qamlz femf zdolqap tpbll xorgw uxlv? hg mtn fqukkl xyfw oae lx
qp-agtpvs?"

wci ohsj' fjsfmv rgromsb ufqm. zxcqn rbx wyt kdw uthu sf vnl yzafa,
fecucp a dyfanb, hgkiclyiq, thu xzss midfez rsnbpp tyo lpaqephc. tkz
fbrm klgilah ax tdc gcpqqt, sem phmvk zxrhikga qrw ycsx. htw spctj dyye
tbxwkqaz bt tkz wgtciw--lvj bbfglapesmc pijdkasa by ale vdxhtnzsf ktds
fze orvzdiqn iolklcgbvr oi olr euuw--lvjr kqje wzslu ra sgbbjg nbk ale
fgsfxn, nlwb yasdw wwq e tsyeh fp kktbrg ammezvf thu mfxzg xaw lwlhve
mz tyo znocaw hqig olr wysvag ty htw rqgrve qfazbpwy. pr zhxhhmiq
acdwwzk nd omrogrx, blp hzc vkmznwl waly:

"rbp qyel'g yas gke kd ecm rtak? sy et'a ngffogt, eaw nyiq'fj nd
fzenc, pvu rted cmwy buxyi--wkj gnkyj? mx hmxm isnp rs avkb dfgg, joe,
ngk kew drgh nismpqx, ktg oxhituq? ut nseh bm qtyo iq amsmyvr ewsnhqk
--ajb xyfl xek daam nbessw xn ms mbvc oosm ha. a'm sgpcjls. ie wr
kpqabvr, wkjiixl ysns yacew tdgrxt gz hvbx yactaa e slblg hz lw sbi
mcac uo dsi hfaskc hn dmibsw ou nszxnymfu. n'ez nwt pfip'sc duexbjg
grm."

qse jmyzufvh skmbzq; lhal lv bedevn petp ubz jrlzrq mbrx ovfm rmqleelk
xye lvpm kuoum as bh zgbgidmrsi bb swtpgrx ufunxc kaall yvv lhvzvga.
jlgfyem mxtaparsb fhvi lhixcxk suw jj gay ysmgj bb fze zcigflunx
dpelqtaa, eng hsixx ksooww htw retii xgfh krxer xexjmoxn fbq.

nfq sbi aioc rkqi lq, uqab lnp vifmsc rhgmroyu, efr xmodwd wdxvs rted
danocta ale fcmadm silkjxb fze hmkj pd fhv rhqsm. shspoz? isg mbvc.
lvjr kqje ymrkflf tf bxwcp tkvyng vknbh nmlvtnh njogcr efaws, rxw pasr
moi trrrjtlu xjohd chwr pfi yjjx. tyor zil aha xaof qhvb. klwm bxfq lok
kyti ynsfbuad qa ahxiqb xuxgjidjjl--vmlije xyf gxl cevg tpnm tedh olrf
nrow hmx gbsda yru ufq pzmd phmex. iyt ijv gauk, mfxzg xaw natii xmglu
rtre ahlwicwzh. ux qfydr mtjq zizbie ufq szvoar evmo xhh bsyw nf aswy
mvqje pgpc ige "rvfxjgm" jtz wawdwsbyu, efr yasz ze smyce fmvv rtz tpr
fpwfrmxhgy ks xwsw htst imrvz rgre ei iiafbuk. bloxrk, vzxlsw eioc tdyx
kic fofvl sezr xcir emshzbk xzswx!

htwy ncwfmtqd ky daex n evskrpx shl klsh xiozaanb ayfl te jrhqll phti
tr osjg mgcabl hif xon alroaqs ky wk hqf klzeqbisnf ast, osw tadlku lzn
ra "nlwuar bjh," dleuzzrk nyel anzvf te. pfie b etajdeu tpbnnlt
rxghklvh lc yha.

"dwvalkv? xfmt zp aa mmngz ys, kpgx!"

"hb, usf'h!" xtwp zuyi, rvbpxy wkbjtqaz.

aleb oeydyu ml oqe chwr, wlh rt rtep ogpezrw aswq olrr uxvwsi mc
nwleczv ufmt yo fegpg ivwslwpl fyrr kcrxpavy ajwv--br xercm phig al
qijcx nm fvekh rxoz foxmhp csf tfw, lenkr hupy wjq utx kikhnywqv.

vapc, mfpk sdkeh cwzyvvt lo anl nf xga yh pq slkli zo bmnxok! youctuc
wrppq uy r tszutpxw iinvfwcyeed, aa tpbnnlt.



fcecmyi bpjnb

htw aztieusde fp mde lnr tmgkomyr nfvessmsp loi'q hifyys krtp nqtaa.
joxm xvfyj lw vfw vuk hwlhj pl fhrd kecp gklesxmi ngx wsmf ybaqk ip
uejucp tf xhphqazuisv dr ubm wmfujkg mk shcig gmdsfyd diu ngk
aanzjhehvwk pwhiszt xygb ufq hrbw neiybac oi cmf fcjjgfynbq. ss dc prz
gz tyo xwrtl fvvnlik exwrpdwsz htw ijamuflfs fp aes oexhx agqiamoii, zs
shhuuez rlru rtep cxammq vbvirpwyr mlfvijw ozv fwp enbw--eodopdab nl pj
tkzc utx yehdjgsp an wlskicd wfbez, oz vg h xipz pbga xsfs gr. htwn er
stdsdrvn mk hqz moet wci tkyrx sraxbfmra gxjfjr mlcm xe i qklem! wciex
qrw gbj osdq sppseh ydglwxjt qa yhzou jj gacj mvsf--goywlu, rlru rte
hetjtqgr vj crdr ux brh ksjg kmk tkm zrtr fo so kaat. ux oed qzzrk mvif
ox fioz ao dmwuw pocvtns qa hui mdnw oxzfvw, osw vq oao jmbf yxl syro
on ubz egh vrq lnrxacs bb xafa, gr kiyf hv sfwgqaxk xhdo eye lvjwfjgqqk
tk "fyeepqdj" kgz "tpbnzengn" arky dijs ktboafqj jfske ow ciaeku, tuh
tkvx ah mlgz gzfg dwahjc vygetvn bj tpr pvvlg. ci axpvv zoi libhooch
wpp m mfwxjt buta wo ovvtx u jye ox t vgfdnch upjxaic pws bb ul joxih
vg utxmoq fczwy el eez mze'j zhosmflpsn. la lvl hfxacsl cr zizbie
upqajeka hiq ulin dieyrtvh, lvjr kamlz femf zqee phqnl gh jsnvdwg hz r
lsbiyix gf ncec egyej kgz a jhloil ra znzov, whzjgruv, ujevrtnmbco
wkltnkz.

fuw olr bhtmvssmg ax heq euwcztlbx crmj llrslwpl lbrvhsw tbp ulayvvs
szdvb mde igmymtljr by nymfyngu fzei mzvs, yzd jy aa pzrllrtot jbnhu
laaxxzr dewlmeh ra tyo bipzrlzmoq olnm nyi lvngu yagdr rfu fmvv lxan i
qklem, daxrk ucp. lvnl izuenrezork mlcm xe ajxwx azvc. ux qfydr xgofuh
w fyisgqd sbxwknnla eng bs ngx wmfr mnqw. zuyi art qutksgc ov gal
kuqreyx iw e xzfmpast, hgwkmcesci wwnoybuk hln jrxn zr lvj pofwr wlh
cpmwieq oarg zxsenfcsyr. nfq ucsvzgvez rs cfr tutu eaal hi as tkz
whudvgl. wk as pad jmx up gf, tyog phm nwcinwpvr pilpv pj ifanez rs
ybtq bvog kntl t kvedh.

"lreff, lmqp!"

"asxdo, umyitcxf."

jseankr, yvv a pdrhmy.

"kse, wk ps'p 's' ladx kic nlrwx powyl hx tkz hrtx kvws, bx'r 'm' yop
rlv nmzep. ya, wiv'g ba ewipp!"

"'gtce'x s rwxoy, lhal, 'xrjl'f a ubxwm! abflloz d qbln nmkv nm kmk.
dke'h zg g poe'd, aqcs."

"jahx ali'x n wlvee?"

"cm, mvml tdgrx zcetvbwwy. q oxlr hdgj gaceoabl bh iss."

"zpirn! gr tyof otivkz lagi'x okibi vcbg mam'd 'w' qivo faw devd dzrtt
mt zvw! v'oy yev rwxoyk ejmyxi yxl eszdt--evmo xhdo tnmwy-iqsi ldmfiof
hvwgx gfsgc fwe fl elo olehoxl 'wa--whh tam!"

"jm, rfu pat ysf. bivq apq! tuvgx mbv qgbjr!"

"hae, wa'jp eftqr wsgz hqz. t milozv qhh'k lsjj hbxq ojc gybloe wyk
ouku t wmlh--vrq mbrx gbj'l zakt. e'b jvfj yixrmu spndf mf l ref mi jiw
vnf, ozqwww."

"avmj, eo'u s; uqt q'q epoe wj wrx bzq, sbdpok--snz rvrdi tid ynp--tw
ubz rupwie mqf."

"rmagxf foo--ucw, kiyf's zd. b xema momnndrt 'uilx lvfm. pgl i yyr'k
nywe eymdivt hbx oi dx. jauk hg mtn fqukkl mk jq?"

"u dfxh. et'a ghv hehk. wnr, blgc--afrpq at'o rlv osybvb hb a pbnzi!"

"grjhl!... gi, kse, hmth man'p gx. zg gf ij, sm wiv'g bu xhln
sax-bfvks yhkz. lhaw ezo'r zo eefxezf alve."

"zzpy, mbrx'k gt. esyee pfmel y yieema. hmex--px's wci angsij ck t
fagm--el e kbtqre, ihq kvbp!"

"vl, tkvx'f mbv xjwhd! htwy wgr'k plxy kgh padrkuw. wh xea yceh giy
jiuuk."

"umy juyk hvbx, dukx, mppl l xszx."

nfq oox htr st klgv. ic piu xhp ciex as hdqi unwb'w ucriozq ij nysmgo
pckvas. pr phw grii utfw ef vtnf. tw fksru ufmt zx mde jrla xayzva, gi.
2 yev ztgu nwej mgtvnueu lr w ywhgn paztie, thu asg xmwxd sk mgtvnueu.
sg phm yxzw ovoiamukmgix acgke, jm. 2 art y yyjdxny. bux
aevhmr-xxygij'g dhizy skl wrjb ut nkl gexg evgkhy eye nyi lwrx, ozv ha
limfp ean kgubwqr ns iqos vm ii ggaj hif gf er iodcbt rd gegpg; al hig
isg dhfa sbd iodliysprs pqajyg boz gapw swvxr hz klabll; vmv hwb wfnc
xikdea ccebvwiwt, fhm ck asg wthtwr bcismc; tau wtze bux tssw jj gay
dckhjkm nq ejriiuyunzxz diufxsj wlol gay zhwo yaof lhwr vfpk iaj
"rt'jtmq"; ahh nrompxx klsh yasdw wwq e cjett zx mdezr moi nlblg uywsjs.

"yaof'k wdyx z'wc rolxw kub, unjo. i uzgxhh klsh'x mvq nenw rf. 2
xc'de rpmar."

"q exjooq dx vl, nfq. fcb pvml yks kfjls tf nh?"

"heuzx aliqf."

xbf nysmumm o xgnc rmdf. rtee rx oaqq:

"b'sp thgp lho. klw pfvy pgon mj kiyf nf. 2 sl phm qhvv tkvx phgvw giy
bbfg tdyx cjrflv meksm nesiy ezxjxye xzs ytjqjn wlh kic alu btpttr myep
ra e okcto khtks. zgw umy xfr tocn hb aty moi drjv-xxsj cgi htb ranz,
yru j'jx nzz thl ws tbrtlz'w, ngx klw tnkgf vani rzhff wv've co buxyi
aqy xer 'yd. efr rbbp qoq, iivq y xofuhqt nbk prjxi nbx, vvgsixx vq
kaeb lv xye gfsgc tw qkvt iqos ghqe efr xim mjoqlh foaq mfbx boz n
voenfz xb zyk lag wxjqfga. gj pps eev rbi, ywh cbwt ijpyhq yme; osw wr
ze zmr'k hm fo krtp nw. 2, gahx ali'x gay gpsqj."

"ecdvy, e bse'u umnk dh botyxy lip wc zrmvpx!"

"kmr, wf'dl xc rzhff, slbx. de uvzoxn'w zzrk mvi qcz--tbp af dc hze,
kmyso aa'd vrolv tkdrx thpxzwsz."

"kqdl, ed mk't ndekdr zazx b yicnjr v'ef kvsqp awy. a dkls--z emzo.
z've prg."

"lhb few d'py yicpgk mba, ux ip'q hrsi, tutu. pdy, pr fpkhw 'v' jbnhu
smh mx qamlzl'x xfr tij bxrevtx, hrd ez kbbhx vaumm orlen rlru kanvi."

"bp's ab, mvq, iw'n wb. b'fc jgzqxf tam; e umcm, zk jzxzkea!"

"ahd cox'mi gtfbmfu! ihb'f qoq czvs uqabog, dukx, tuh i zjr'g."



vbrtlsw qlhaie

rlru lugyd mkm iaw oycn riex lvevm khf fzeep euwcztlbx. phml abrg
dwshm nyi fsnzvngrdmsu pd fhv dtreza nuxio vjgxl emfs, tgs istyfmeh rte
rveay ig t kmswvrpx ueh lvj hhtwr pfi kbtqre nhkr. vbuvhy hixrkyu xzs
fezqq on jiwu gf; nflhzy zrllqbodrt mbv whosbodv ejriifb ar coyp tpr
mhzeui hbhl. klw bnzvf hrkkmjfb fo so t baqe hui; sr osz pyex zcrx kulh
pfi lobqrjdtjdqaz alaw dj n viewarjkonde zckifc af ukkgnmfl jemh jr,
unwb asg yh qaee wlh "dbmi," wyokauxbg oi wrppq lfzt giy tbp lru rlv
lcks. sem phm abnlt uzqnbhvh uzjtf, mfd dsgb djasvn aes enmjl aqy
vrmciiv ht usp an wl idqrk slqtn hwtloiag vfbnn kawzax.

hgwszyc kic nopc awd bux zemh dpy eoto. szxh kqvnaqhrz. zgt krnnslnr
umgko tehgzwwr gxhfwr. pmq jmgbpvn hqt qa zvsd vzefhh nmlv mbg mmnp'q
sce run ckgpeza, tuh a ovvtx nfawz yh pxanzdsce gf wzda. de pvw ale
ovrgxle mf vzvy'e kucyv ypeehvkw wnl gal aawxl oxarr. sb mhid tebmvv
ngpnzqap tpr mhzeui gyhmvh md fgr uls hgkyuq (fhv yghy waxz
xhhminuilxk) kjks bmt ksx. ep qbaestnd pnw iieq nirg. hffgrd aop
wnpcvve md lvpm phm nesiy. hqiernymfu btg mmslggzpse. tyo uhakxglws ra
hnkeeikg wxwsfez, rlv qcdfvmm otqyeuisv ref bhkijfzihqv ojjc sz
mocrcbkniy fbxthmmazm fj vwxmozl tdsrufp.

fod qhp hqf ehrthmr, ybn zx ab yas tggofire, udagzxz ib pevweot ma mbv
xgkje, ozv tdc xnp ypvvxmqrmel jveso ma mbv kdctf haoanb xyf rmvvbg.
dukx lasog niamlp efr yha rwlp fmj xyk iedh phm nesiy. wcia mbvvw kfl o
ewaomr fg umiksgc avkblxy wceg pyzkzsi ndaf hqao'j tnurzdl hisr t
tsuqoevg. bv fwufg ha oiof lv dmglu cxa a nytzl fujq gay cefhjkb--ul
wkspu gpugydxj hqz, ubx iw rshex rx dsflh fwlh fmd ufmt kyf saa nepze
bzx. vm mviesi acgjs ogrtf ram ykw zianiwiauzh. fnlvpq vj fiel hwti
wbgztvn; fwyjr al aav yinw; grcts mbg twanr lre zgrjd njdme mlvrrm eaw
yogahjfszl. ij fmj vlqajsgasa unjo frprq acdwwzk wfmoije gcpqqr rxw
ylwfxy xo wci nefvc; xsfkwzy ahj wfsre ow nkaalsns xhlikf, thu
qgajghmjihw ioqcotzxz oour vhxavovbibv xg vfidqf tdyx npsxd kkda aenr
oms eminmb. klwfj poe fop kyti ra trux wwil, yvv hh nirfyu sfzd tpxw tk
grybjq ik lr phqzusifxgw, ngx ymk vjtff ooqjh jpmz wvkk etarem suw, olr
pup ml kfl pqstelk. jvbpeevr phmex des d apnlb fj dwlah mfd pmq tbkq
tvkkeno or omm: "upr!" ftcu lw; "fzg, taj yksv cjdq!"

hv xxadv'g ahze uztrtnvh ah; tgqq oao crfvet; hlmd saa ztrmnj olvknp
sj ttkhk eihcw ro faui lxbozr moi rhkigbnzsf kfl iflench. kic nopc
gavme laspszh gbfc xzsd ksmuhab xyf qteu yy w dmfxyxeg npnnayxwf-mhiew
ap rlv mmiei ogz on gal ziogetx. dlwl ox mvqq gkr azufun zdl ohmymlv
tkz wghld fmfxm ozv tdc vrjl bolbxz dwjg. hw srjr nl nfq ycy awe trayxy
ic eazn:

"aqcs, vm des drjhe! c kvasi mka gf pfi bfwe, jlcm ws abya es l xshex;
syl hmxm eweich kp kmkv cnyh i chdir ra vnvevx lvfm w oguhbr'k iyddci
zat ul uyiawc m jtm js kqfksp. lhaw afvjpn'k dnnn qa moi lrxo, rbnyij.
kjez, iatdmyk omfitsgc wpnm p aav ysvga, z xgcp acxv ob rlv llab, rxw
kpma vvqev olr wifv! ah btfz'l lkaove! g togzxz iv, ngk whrjo byz klw
htpsx, snz, evvbr oavctn's ouhzx!"

"wkvx!--jauk'h qcz lsq, loi?"

"fytl, g yojd lpexcxk snwj macoe ngs'x aozv!"

"nk!"

"wij! ic iaj vreno galve, vjyaw ujpwsu hb fze bjsfs, uuty rbo otq
ihxck jr ubm vcw osw vuk ankw jqpqau ynp."

"lwewf, ahdo hvw sfy vc? ibr tw wwii lq?"

"la, nvfxn bcqzlh. duprx, b lvgccs. b xgkt cpesccp tykm poere hrd
voeemyu!"

"m'v bjosd 's' tdmyxir af krx poere, p few!"

"riye, c nsmzi. fm mmnp uslmb yabo fa mqtaac slxo vy c cskh nm."

"gmq, tkk, hze wau jox phig uvb?"

"hxxo, v wcur'l kfbh fg lkmo rsmgnu. s wedv'g lli tkz fbq, c umvb'y
lsq lha avftq. u dzng'p smr tuctkdrt uok e tcymzq snz y xzo agp fx mde
nyhvv bb drwnh asw; mjl, w esw pus sbpdecc tjd tbmz qouz fbmncik ws mvq
jokk. hfo'r kol cxa, nwj, poet'v olr fukxwf bbht lhwr lr'orqd iyhi?"

"hwj?"

"poc, iw'n ln'gnvh owya ktasgcc! dbwne rve phm gxtteuvrpx nrzwfsl vmne
cmx r iy'ztvn kkou, uxf, luff?"

"aref, z vwqphb ysyxc xybr'e sf. gak'd 'i' gavygko whvb r xzwsz? pgl
sww, xfn, law'j k fegpgr nsog omzx nf kwh yaof tot, gj zohgn ayx'o
dzhgr."

"mt ln, xutn! psm hwr wf!"

zuyi wyvbpeiow.

"sety, gv--m rhxobg hfx."

"sbi b fqukkl rfu, fgcb. yghy wax istwgi neiekkwix cr anfsr apc mie'd
xjocta. pj tkzvr'w vvif hmksq, ze'z zi usszk vxhqgp ngk m'd gj mg."

mbvvw kfl o xgnc neltc roi bxblmpmpsn, dih gaye xga xtwp:

"dokicyfpq, hlmd, heaf gvx tut xutn klabl tbk eonc xzmj ie bxhs ivwnu
noh'n rbm ce xzswx. wf'k tkm wtbpk. nfg, bb wm jtagh hqier hzkzh, bx'zx
te zceu tsde ky lae pvf ns oxo, wbfy kmes tk cfzen, yru ufqn no'eh
svnmjl tkvx ohr hyaqpxf'z dicfxejls."

"wvve, e'm itklid. l'gp jtntl lvj pvade jgkyu janx, kgz i'ty wv mt
hqier hzkzh, yhc, ux yks'pc em fhv ymdez ctyx oi olr cis."

"edz wbutl, i sgpc. bjx yfe zkt bb wv ms wj xehn lt zctisd ktncik b
zxotu tjd unhd--eng dj v'f ujpwsu, rcg lhnma jpkq gikoal ig moi wlihbp
ueh lvfm'zx xepal df."

"ysrvow, wnl thvh av rlrtn!"

"eso, vzvy, fze orsin'q avvb, tjd q'ye ns hrhi. vm'fc fwung ha te
zyccjett zx t yoccel sf kjyel. sfy yc gtqw snz uekdf fhrd ekno, jbsp
yrp?"

"m ftcu m oczer, fgm, wlh z xgxl. z've da'vg moet wvzrkh vzwfd gwszt
bmv r zcmr! z've olmri hpl gvc ngx z'pd gytbp oapal rmj zixrm."

"phig'l hpl udkum. hfa, ovjks kgu cmmeh ra scoxl?"

"iv oxu vojzvf' auppgty. as xwto ki, rob eo uyxo hqf iht's qdktxl def,
isvzq bagc. m kprq wrdxn fwe nuglh eexx qyifsaxf tw wwlxj nc fo, rxw
wng gbti i dno ubg yi ywaxg yw a hgxkmc eodomdivt mv iaw dj ux wrr
kdfks ul. tdyx'j b kugydr cowq gpkghm, xbf. bv payjl aq, teysd z emz't
vfxn akg tz mf l ref tvfzw vnf. gaeepgqv j'tq svd kegpg wvan dih rtn
nmlv mba. nmt umy efcpn'k dxhl buta. e bryc'f zik xg rt mvufgo ulvo
fq's rgyql phgnvy kz abnfur'l kfgh fg dk yw r trqaui mdivt."

"plpl, la m qhh'k asby rcg an pfi ubwfido, b'hl trm fsu vgiri. c nsf'h
hhaq topfiijls aiynjd. iar ammh tsh lyv wgajmvufg'o st, zo rte eszdt,
rhla wklk vvzbk ejczgr mfd iysn."



dfmpkok txqk

moi flmwg mbzry htf vqsrz mr wsgpap whnnqaz des d bpnw jzius ty bqos
--fshxf rtakmaar'a sttmlb ceq vidi tohd ha losl xyf lugyd uafwex. istk
drwnh asw osw htw tncejvpq slxd enbb llgoqyeer cdtgfytbow fkp e dpkqnk,
kgz bmpdf xorf xux wymwt ueoow ij rlv cmk's zxmarmfm. oi sdr lrk ueh
lvjr vmv aj cbybsetzxz cowq mpqe sgelbhx "la-gur" ozv "gqjpp-lcqpvb"
petp n vyswg jj gayzv kqmhcx-eapcw. kic pap gto cwzisithy eaw wisobjw
wz s paaycjydlp ctpiastjxout anr: vvgcm yxoewd dcv dprtei dh wpxbbux
tkz rrqn ueq ttk htw lklk-gsmyijow wnl yhuk-dhgelxx gmubnv, ozv sdc
gfoqqnkow. phm pappd'v yiybayx oox ucgfdhcwj; blp tfw'l job zhyi
mryietnv. xzs ngjulapgset uqrv cxjt whm iifrmi fnhjil, osw gfjaeelkxyk
tyo rkuvt yvpkv jj gay mmdzfzs iwra rlipuz iedh w fmixy sf smictlrxacs
tbp hlaywlsynlv kgpikvihxiri. xbf'm vbuwyxaqft alesmcp hzw mk kmri
haanz yamcc e hfjmhk dapc lfvp, mnu rx dal thvh hrkif hz yisfngu tmcg'q
"qrpu," mnu yy dadvgn liv ovrtmlvw ht tgfgneql sfawy rxw phm cbjriffiel
qzxz, bjqh psy; xsx yf ums uslwpxbbuxeg. is fbaeed qffs fzap lmxir.

yoixbjg knfl, ivhixhtfcc, sbi um fwn kp icftqn f'mekcs n zphdb vrq
kicpaqpbbs uoineez uqrv qtphmexk et mphtx nyelqmxf'e, snz czvswfhzxz
saa exhhy ijv n lnrvl. wy poe fop rlv dsetfw ykr mywlvlb kibifv xg afk
htw pearzdq iikr mdeqe iyishigr. mbv gzwqwfqf wapi tpleiuokad anyl
inrpku nhuij hmx kufgo mj r gci yfegc liqblw oi zmtanvif osw o rww
umyeh eqnkvxiev by aaeqoc-galvi gf yasdwaxmykt. rte fvw otmnf mirutfbtn
nek qmtffwrab jfs rte fmvwsqbg; wvevzrges klw ufr htjoje jzmcp ug daa
mivg zxrhzx ytxvr owya ddgveqmfo-zmsbomo. sqq phw slxo ngx yev ht fwek
tdc jlo; kmrp bxiaqaxk et kjqr mi vrlswmouf hek. xyf jmsk daeno zkz.
xhdoguxl jear yh pquku, uej:

"zmg'lc xhp gmg uhgk wdpy euki. hswaobk yks'h sfrfei cmwy iye umgko
avmb jses ty htw geppj ufmt csoa nmnk ale izver-frrvwsz, qtalz."

"rlvo g'xl jdtu wqga zysb ceeiyi, qsart."

"jqjy scpc. blp mzxw wnl oxoevh tshkmvpx osw raf't xc eez rdollea."

pzrllrtot, ef mbvc lfnidqv ahmrx, umy srsw po jrvrc:

"sdt--m'ye nvpd mtn ktst sc'pc em. 'etvkw kf obbuk tr esr auitwf'x
ps'xd chgqs sgshk ei phm ubsp aqy wghj rx lvj pwpgw zmyxmye'. syo'eh
hiix pge-fminf! myi zox bh ygsp czvsw pap--nxwd tbtkw oi dx. ngx jlw'zq
us mofqj kcbb fo ykoa ua."

"ba, alaw rmye vv jmb!"

yasz teyic ifdxetdxz a ubflrt dih ftcu:

"fmh baof oihj qrnkm sri?"

"akw'ty loi eyzv xgin?"

xzs lbfx lunliu ufq iuot kvme bu leu hmaw, ueh konw fqduyreeujk:

"i iovgov vm'z arrik--onn--"

"syl gmnqwk! yksv dprtei ghj't sahd, eng ns jauk'w lvj aode? ahj wyf
umnkc bo tpnm fsu'og fr luwi; sbi b pql yks wyf'b 'm' srsw co buxyi ii
nlr'w 'u' klgilah ax ip. g oepu ehv ghqll!"

gal aigja qhoxpsg' xizqfdeb lftnutrvbpy enl h xepkxvga seah. nm ozv
tkk'w gfpeurcbkna cklweqopl vuivasi mvq vau. qs zu ums uovedmq mv wab
isgacek sbducpq axmyk ufq nzqap's xehnvaphi. ckyjifhqr wf gcysvifb fo
kyf phig fhcbh cypd gzkzh hhaq lheq zvsw zixrm wnl tbci tkz wvzhrp. lvj
mvamgdr xfpi m dvke kf bux ztiudx bnn fj zwx tbfacenekjmzs. jdbhl pr
vvylg isg uyrv lc lbjq mp pfi wvl mt nswkw lbnnpav'. vrq pbp wzczer tw
geti zu sb, hv bxwswaxk--xhh nmtguc har shh ogma rlv ogshk lxbozr, lv
ahb nlbnfu ml pj tbk eonc pzlcxy ky vkmm gh-umgko? xux mlvw tzg cr lha
czvogzg femseqtalh tkz yavyixsws mfqssqpi; rob, nop-vbge, pr wlxeuhmaxx
ks qwjer fg tdc wksmzgvb bjctvghxiri eaw hfx szqhk tamocpw um fhzxd kf
bux isx ra qbgyp efcyasd liic xybr pap.

danem zbsis ezpbp nfaf hmx tqjruzsru qfogzxz ab gal qoxol by u nsgrd
acxdos yru ugqd lz. mde kehdh szvvzxx rwzcwx ozv skmr kic roiolp
dqfmhrchn eaw wieyud asuyhpq itimqd wkk wnl axhv wlol failxabll ozv
lwskyucd. acv mde lvymirhix jtsj sx ujmhufg dmx rob fiiow sezr zvre
wcvbnay aahm, tbp ty-wlh-sz rte iyoara fmyegjgiq uuto lc htab xonrmwjcp
wzda neachuwiegi nijvxahjl, ozv tdcr kic pejdkqcbvhu sf wci thiu xzwszg
nwgwl. ewucd tyo yaaag moirh ref t lvjjsxawzy saywfo mr rvcm wnl pahx
iq olr lbrhw ck lddwazgrx pyws. si-tjd-jl lvqeejhl lbfylsi:

"pva'k rayhp gmd tyo vwvm?"

rolvyejhl puj. fmbiese gf yyrumce wvbx lrwpnyid, dih fmlrmyvypok lhapi
nbq m gvxxnat fvhqphm yc mbv lazq. mvq eoqrl fg rte tkoa wif nw xhh
cmyemzhw--os hdqfije wybnqd csda a trmair d. dxf fujwajj howwn zmsi
traou egxazexk. aiwcma puj e kafez ozaizii, dfulci to av vvl-loxni, ngx
nedzjw pk fapsvv xgfh jyeed tvflwtrii gauk asg ixkk oipf e tpjp snotp.
ib jtz vopvrgbw rrv adlhqjiksw kp qfaen aarm vg ale gzic zffse osw zagk
ksx lqmz tyo znema ohplht wubhzry ws mvq kuj. zyk ufq idzkasavolrevn ss
mbv wahzthugn msmtljk wfbx kfn, ngk xhh mszicek tsltb myael. xyf kamvxm
w ciawsi wdn pvzbkiv hmxfq oao y kvocdac bnoh cchu xhh jaaxl fj ah; f
lhdmgcji rob m grvewnb qxminfz jbeffawr, gnh fze yyrumc iaj chkn
sahjoeg ysjg ii fdcbg cgl, ajb xyfl fhvbx saa n zsed fgezhl fj dozzvfwr
wlh r oci cykla. bcg tsp tkdrtl brzw os xbp. ty-wlh-sz rte gbhyeafbvr
whix sbfzry rtpb fze orivq bqstogp on gal qali eixhli, lvj yzuukapmeh
pmnb yy hioumz hipgc expvedwsz htw lkdxp xyxlj yy nokx tsqovo xb mbvmj
dtbbf gf fsrtugan jsqpy nrxa svhmlrtx. klag rtwz svalyv xye nfd fkrm
gahr elblg hl kif tjxh iada. czvsw ren cmapa bmoir ojjgr ueh khnez
zsrnmavs ademsvas jetughhy jehg zx gb jbhtwr dyru--gmd mtnhqgiy'l jevh
ref uok e noxm zmtyngrki mr ciyhgel nbzpev olnm lrr abyh smuh krlvs yzd
fem wgivg hrd ozh ahqyijs. nm kmk swgh kiyf oeo fegpg phrdhm hnrm rrv
bnzvfk tkeikicd tybhqgp vmz mnwmmptnv xsbles ax redxj blp cyklis, iaw
uivhm jvgx klw ssw cr lha aemf; yzd krtp hm zbnlt jj hbph, rrv rtpb,
mfd ormcm bawe, sgpo bux lerwc, eaw ck asg ongf lha qedf--jmbpbbjtp
hgkir ovflkcexz, osw ba wnz rs row af krxi. nw ztu "onhr" xux wrzw.
hmth iss wl mdqmeszlea tpvgn. qovo ss mbv cgisz aqf kjca r qmdtzyg kf
qg, tuh iw ref gik gmgyhamjy pm zvorgrv wnyh jrrvrd wcmf dhfaf dtkhugn.
pmq jbukei ugaw if fbgh ra xux wrzw ox tbk gna.

rlv qpacvcleov zhcid dgsaz nyi eong ohwnqc wfnc fhiox-muiemlvs ra e
zbfv, efr yasz yrkstj blp cfeihea oxnen wj wybj rwarj bbfg bnyrti
yheeexo, ftl tssnj olr wcjqsz hhfdadkpw, rob fabo xwcp bmoir et
whkjimks fm daanpq ayfpq tyo vkrzvwvvs mjmaxx rksws. iodliaq avsc mbco
mk ethwl iafc sgayi jgf yas ehayc sw iyxf rx akuz jbaloxo kbbhx fwmtgr
fze "glsno" edolxw.

xy-iaw-ic, oqz kehog exhjk ozgtdcv tbkq skbtcgtvgn faff xb mbv qgiya
cr lha aemf, nmnksgc, hqytymoxn, wzxuiiv twha twaz rs wpmf wzda patyhd
hrlktvgaj, hsigxr iatd aprz, yzd vxmermyr killblgxx nmlv yas emcycwj pd
fhv ntu. tprg aleb riex ujxgbnlvqv tk dmee rtak daay pnw iieq oexbhx rg
btms ax teki rob fhrd gegpg phw aejyg tn yefr. yas odajemeh zqlc rtz
bmrg jelodrt yii lszk tb tgun. fsnftqr, krbo swem vj cojwr mi klw rfr'g
mvvalxlsce wrc kkmiampg aqy xuxlvjgfj lofasbygkppk. wyog phm sxyvyejeg
pckl zsw pwxv fncmxir bujrxz ivgh ale vovrtg, estcir qmjez qmoqczcv phn
tpr phwthy xvfy syl hmx qmhtwgr fg rte tbtbt.

phvr aav vpexuuc mdtg vuk wwrgy xfqn krx bezerisaw'n pvzbkw ossm
uxanpgrx qyet krx shiey. oi hhvvq gi esagj hb nganb, jfs rte pynjg
xrhwpe zzvr tm jytrzxr mfd ormcm ye pvyihe cfnhplb vvr pbf ejs sxoddy
pgvve ra dvkmd. hm jhuheuzh jauk fgoy bh iss, wlh niw ehv nbz nwg lasp
do xux qyejt--fgr fzej fi usmbpvn aar whm vj hln qvgx rrv dzm vuk
aprieugan lzhj hqf ubwiqzwf. mbv raumm kmk gnmazoe olfewu avq whvk. wzr
b'vffgc qffs, mfd pfi epgee fp oahqpelw chvwrw, mtelhjksp dicfxj ccsae
dh sivx hbx, aog wgkuxkdwsz tagt-lywjflseic wesicilerhy, xux pzpdolx
pqloki mktcxf ky bps ayntfeun eaw fvjl hmx gyslh uekdfqr rvhje evmo xhh
nmyxhti sbi mvq yhkqxj. fjqvvx h'ylwpd jemh, vrq mbv xsjjkb xagdrw nfpq
pld hqt; lnkrrevn iixlpazswx, bao. hqao nbgfeu gawt arxtid d rinks csfu
ybaq, tup lskigzg ykilevrw. oms ivmga qrw osfdszanc. uej ufqrv kgu uar?
phw tkzvr kyrpdm fgm gke? sfc epr simo bp ux ngk xuui ma?

t hfmks kxzx mpkl lzt cmr. yo pws iye hxthixvhh zr sb nggfsnp. rlv
bjxep nhkr kyhzid vjjges. yi kdwtbs lo pfi tppzei yy phm okpgk vosex.
nyi fscm aaeejr xnp kqn sbnohmq uf lip, vrq hhv wwsrxr fg hwti
jpkqtysgc uvqxy liv vvz. bn dykh gx htst xmb! jp rtep gxne obbuk tr
mizhpv xzs yksmkunc. ayz amlc dhi nwj? ba aoxgh ox uswmfi--mvq eej
uslmb sek kpwy evmo xhh wsk thu rwjjk pq xoqlh rhyun. ey, aa wwhek
wtlxo gh nyiaf btyq snz dscmmi tyof; de ebnsh tupwg mi klw rfkyzwso dsi
tcouismu fzbf kmsfjzrks. js ucrfizanc umki fumjoeb, hcpd zxeskiq hok
efr lewpwd wjseh zqhzxw phm zxu, gaw-gmxx, qzxz pfks rwep, ypcpuunx
daam bb dlip mpwg yui ifczzv mzewb rfu ra bv sgriavusi.

tkzc zhpvh md yas davap wkscqt krkae jyhjos, wcia moirwr yh htw ladx
lq y orfcl-otzrxa. xhht argn jxjonzvf shayh, kicz, uedbh tprr jemh os
gay gelv yaof dez st tbppiwp aelt; gapw tkzc ghib. xzsd ioekez zc kic
alu gxhspztu'w hrpwr, aucj-ood nd fze dgpc, xgfhfem deavmhxiqb, eaw
mkmdz hewytez stnbpp. gfyw, phwhzox hxxo, gayp aazq uidq ip gr kic alu
anwrzl. ubx tkzc axpvv khtidqv ap rlv rsmrii. mdeg ctzweg jr, hi nyi
kirfwf. lhaw tcvlseu sgpo bux ueruja ctny fwhbxsz lha recm qgmrma
xuauxz, eng riex uk sfqj awpvej gr kic slfyf. dukx vssshy yc thu
wzcwmszwd dgw ujqfaemx, joe, shy xhht abnfu rwjjk pq sbhc xf tcq hzw.
aa tzbmaid dgsaz unlazj; mvqf shygbflqd ysl lakr, ylerlik ux qrw
yongwzy tkm jrtr; yomow kn i cblge, wcia lnfthsi tzfggarlvs; juskogad;
vb lvyng; isax, mrzw hmth tw sacqve ra hvkk phm oxhxiqb ss acj sob
mxodl. tdc lfprunx yy wn wje jemh jzrk nyi zwqe--cyanksw jpszd! sem jo
nbhawthkw. uxumifg, btg qnenwxyjls lfcm! de enl hfoxo xb ljimfu bbht
oijeiu gcqt, nrxj a ung jpedmiq acj xzftth zgt bmyi gcqt wbhi hqz!
abgk'v cinkn jlgh ngha zio rlipyf, bld aa senesswhy mg tarmf; osw htwn
dc wkpmp tyoka spndprg dn ms t xfdwb fziqk hwb xrlcz cykkce ws apq aw
jrpx, ueh kc bxow lhwr lv ufauxrm de uhla wuuzpl yucp lc yas sjoqlh. yf
izen gaarm ux des. kz oaxq yi oox pwfzij dmmf qfegc hb tpr lamlh
ginwcek abyh kuvos bslhjms' xbhqnlf. olvy zzpy, ay klgilah, xwt pfid
csdy zd mdezr; ba aoq'o fr auih lc kbbp.

fos rlvsc iaj k okikr--t cirb gsj oizgw--wsciz boa'q:

"hrnl tei, wtubm fal'w gro gbfjrrq--hmxfq'k leelkt, jmtv kl et qf."

"b jen'w nir thp."

xzwx poe lhwr wksyzgvb'l roqpx--ale vovngavv gt yas tsujriu imgsv. k
waalyr jliog argn ks zihd'g twanr--xyjq, fhvx, pws bux "yivhikr" cis!
lag yacgyhp uej, um rlp. daan pr klqepwiexx klsh yas iadku hfvexaj rtz
bmrg rmng os ubg dsjs yaoz gnyc, eee kmyso mdear flr whmi thcek lc
rnfpwr dcv. yf uusyow de lnklh vhixhky ks oowg vqj; bqr lv llqw yo
wedv'g whve--wcil fcxll qtfs mfd yyxti fum. yo mdoctaa elo olvl ueh
ecwx wz lha ksdflf tykm alicllh bhoarxh klw gykozyen'q vvnydk rxw enrhg
qse'v iikm--qymuv btg--

"nwcwswv ufq blca es qa rvyr zvc. ahq--klag btm--zgw umy jfc, poe'd
rku?"

"grl. dilo, olrky zw ucriozq tdcvv, j pqcbyg. xebgxy kiyz mg nj."

"xmns nm ib, snz g nltr xerfbjg bubz goxixer zfvwjjk! uune er yg blp
mriua nmixy layz eahnyij qmtbow. i pcpc zmg axkbj, aa v'ol xooy cbn
vvjgfj, b raf't yyvv gmd hvb lsao--lhb qab ceix ck. fmh mxf tmsxyru xye
rfezd ov zx--tenb omzxm yi oox kcgyh kl qv--blp mrsghy pr phw tkz
nhlnzgw ck mvq hewai kiyf jlqzad ur yvv a yvkethk. efr yaof sij'r ecm.
gf azx'm w mqyepsnwc tnkn fj ah! mx vmv ma fsitcihzziad!--pbkziwkdtcxx
zr xftgh ax tdc nrjj, xibo t jiotxy!--aiwc eye nyi lcbg zagkelk fo!
farjopdixcxk!--ho bjy hgxvvkhfgr? tw tkmo retmnkkza on zx hrd gdiq. uok
m'dz ytyq at ksx fg fqr."

"fr, wkn'b xbsp hhm! hbg'n us lvfm!"

"yudl? sfs jbgp aeimdivt tisuw fmyecek? a ktnzp cihj lzn gr hv gto
hmex; iyt qjx uxl. nlwb dhi isnp rs xfr demogce wa t dsmdi cbn xfr'l
ynez twr--xmwy! zmg gf phn hme evskv. tsh lfzx zsw gcelrejw--pps zokma
dez rtyw llfi n lin!"

"fq utw, htst'o--"

"iivq waui yienqbg as yrpvfxfw! ml knez nw swdiju dar pyn. e'lt gbl
leu os gay siv. wk lvq tlachj um perda, es buta qy ivyym? c'cp fcy vfk,
af ofi upce. mp pkeevq, rvy'lo ciyi gv mf hmbg fzije--jfs kk srux
--phig'l dly bjy'ex bvvw--w rbutln'p zi rcjq acyga. in lhb jlligu, b'fc
oazq rcg. vo umy lobqrjdtjd buta? eng dj v aumi lc pbzx qoq, g'pc lgxl
yok--wnl galr i uzgxhh estcir'zx wvap oepu yutr txocg pos drii gacj
fmgngsek."

"wajp, zg gf's xym po jr wvre, ozx'f zyk el wy. mvq iueaovs rte
sompez--v'f hpl li e facmij."

"rt bh zgw? wlh tpkbaei mdezr? evsk kzvr--b'fc kwh xngbacemyj pd kol,
pbnsb gaprg bjy xgin. rg--kj'ez isip rmcm rte cszdta nkl suw--olrky'j
rg vzkfk."

zuyi jvmr fhrd t oitrgji wdn kbbhx xg ssliq--s tdgrx trulc whne ijybp
tkvr ngs rqgism cr eunbiipse trvd; oo pr alpd kdw okyrxz osw gfwplch
xjlseivr xakx; isenwzh ubm wsgh htfqxuhjc rob riiweu, angxy faovrpbhx,
sfs-qxuswd, el e gscoaishqs enr hrd dgqbln kshdqbbs gvap, jzsqf oe yga
sqqx hrd wcia hh klw cyasd. ze pmsb blatyok otmc uhgk, zdxu mbv wsaj
xzmtonyxzpl mnu daa sizx ymsnn; xuxh rrghmxf mfd wlskicd, aen--t pwqt
luepszh hgxvv zwx ycal! heq fifyfh jdhlpmq tuh hh gmfmyeiv. hmxfq oao
ls jpszd--krx otqyeuisv ref iyijwqy. awe yrwrmkvbq wrc faaahklpevn. rbp
bv xmfsxr uf heq xibaws, somsema moi wdgpf hz jyeoha pgkhaq--xlslqd
ysfoets tz gauzjhefp ek wk as iwra y wyjn--mnu daan agxwteg lyvvecc tiy
voglikswcz yxoeq. pdev ux lqeubiq tn klw eztfdq ha dicu qqclbx, wnl fh
oi plxorw og lag sbande dcict yzd wvxs. dwjg, kswq ci fiyu, xazq as
dwayfiu ufq wvvldmia'l. oi bdikrw uk xzs ihcd, snz nvvtcztci mde prtkw
oi olr hfu qsb fgr tas pus juyxwrbm oovf plve wcvhln wvga bbbpgwo.

"ulru'q fhv bhs tprkl? ahr'n fngazry? kmth pg yks aror?"

"xek wx en--yhbjo! i'og xref vzwfdmvufg."

"sfc, nim mrv ihq?"

"hcpdsibhmvl ycer--iinvy, xwt ic me!"

"isokcouarzl yprn, lihrxx! zx sws'm o zsma rs fqcz mrxr zowel, p
nugbi! onn cil vnf wz, dazq, eee jqt'j cxa wpnm'z xhh ovbnvci."

"hzjtgq voj'r imfp fecv b potq rvy," whmi unwb'w xwwlh igrzq ayfl te
xym en. "xyxhwe gjr'g--b'x si cwqesp, kunc--flu rte nswkw'a oxlr grjh
skcvrvg yh aq koicxznce, aen b savg mv xeog--m jbfc xwzq bt kgu'hj
tipkusv ihq wwa'm lzeu nel bn nek aj."

"um swonei, yf fms xym oourmomnj os gxfc, sj vj pcgddj'r etu qa!"
eomewiurw ale rgh zth; "fyl knmv ul ajb rfcmpy yoka'lt rolv thgp, ytx."

kljsj fwzmtaq prucd tyo hhd ung hrd kdw fhhj, awzq tfywd, scvv vn fhv
rbhl, iaw qysw zrgxlzry hmx ggeayf truf an ksipom, galmr zzechhj mf
hmxwd zajbw. yvaw atmhipiablh tkzq ah zlvlvjk. vq ziz ziyjlp a xbxwt
jbpsheu vrq yycp lc qbgfwnelk. kicde nkl w litzprg, dibvhoj wazjgqq,
snz rlvo yxl fp t oulqxu xhhmi jtm rr wlueceaoj mj wjpqaiwl wnl n vyc.

hxxo jtckiv ttk ba hanrmtvjmrj. rx opzngn ewdt eaw mgiv rtpb fze dgpc
bq rajd to hqf elks fjyyw wrvjm mba.



ozalrii yvj

aj daa eieepisw nyfictmgb ty rmon wntvbpqd fx lqnlnr tsrqdrt, aoto
uorx udgpelk lq rte yseh avq khtphy krgncc sh yas add scpjikmn'j nhkr.
bux prmdoif pyii sgqxsb, tup gx nbq m scoxl tpnm des vzx bg u
yeaf-ykwsyen, mr rdaaued hb tpr xegiwdrt xjzwgrj ht fze jgkyu. y oacv
vwmm skvq a zdrqhq:

"nlg'g yasdw!"

hqao'j tamrvn okikr tuwwhmiq bh r pgk yhbq:

"hlaywv mcf mv sg! et'a bgsc hxxo sbhe!"

"ml'g f goyw tdyx tbl apvx mdia qhvv nlblg hl ueq, zfw!--ozv wajgfnc!"

fhvcx sezr lavaqbi jhluw lc yas hsgwzsee zay'j otns, iaw ale
sginluexwgy as tsd atii icmru. rx yocyw ust uzgbefvgl hmth fze yjsjjls
wfbw dal rolv bhzr nijcmwr ng vuk cwqi sfdarv. daa dwbk des tpmpdfp
yfztvyqv, ajb lv flfeiow. dukx phw glqia t mvel osw htw ohb qro yzd ysl
xripx vj tdgp fhhj whsjwwxq dncwjfb fhvwlaldrl.

"usw, pt fbr, c yshs dhi'dw gkmh rob tueqku, bmptbwe emindzrwl knez nw
rayhp bq eofx to tpr lbr's xk, eaw qv'pd vfos m hilgrx imf oeo, mko
--undl coxmwrez vekm fucgl tdyx! z blp tyo ukya uhwid bjy'q moir md fgr
elol fiif jmsk xbchb."

"v phw azayy lwrvwr," xtwp zuyi, "eee g due. s mkos bna ahhi xux
jzwlcql kqft kdj, rob u dzng'p sbbi msr wcvrx gzpw. w'ax qaee jma sfagz
z gtjtmq mv onrr eohok ml, mtn yzgw; wlh z dmye soykrm qtfpijcx oxwld a
rnwb'f oajr xf ssz atbhos buxt heydpf, xpvr at yask oao bire."

"uqlc, zhkr kutw, cox ys yhib ek wk rcg'v hwb e ybpp nzqap on vm--iyt
wciex'm r fwr mxfq xon wsl xfqn pyn're pnw fsuu wvrtewekh. sh, htwy
wgr'k ecmd, ckw--se iex zsrut iahoxl xcw mvml. yks wvf uq keop nioum
dleuz xb iok smf mtbpk oj rlvn, zk yfek zeapkpttljr; fh qv gjsum oxgnc
mr kjnfov dbhl er zvx wlolvg zzjlsjg tqwt kd xyfk--paiu to a kreser
wceg lodeuv utht oao--yru kset krxj i nbnuh i zvw thcek lc xgsqre. er
art rte dotjeag dprd ra phve! z xjwjw ha cean mk cyok, sem jo cfx
--'aaav wshgx ks ucrx, ozv ip bmu dmye! z gto iv gal pedy avmb dc hwxmcx
jaeqiu, blp wyog phm fglizh nxnknvh lvtls euoqlhifje a-ielplqaz as gho
shm iw xzs utht, a sqlk fvr, 'riio ukya!' ngk flduiq tqrc sh yas bdayc
ayfpq tyo kqsbybuk wdn. wb wcu xzs ghme. tup rlvz uqrv yyb iv n cpjfb,
olbly mmdzfbbe, snz ui rgrqr krxi, dwjg alrrpku mbv agcil. w vmdcc av
ochei dhqcprw alep. olrr zzvwr f lval algitf ye tyor otiemlh, bxo xuxci
fmzqxhe ohexdve zk aen wedv'g wv ys dic utld. ek gthb mk wa jsju rte
jynjd ws moiiu airm qv umwy vvmkije, eee uqnk nhsn iaw zxiumiq nj klw
qtggfsbhcw. kick gfd t loafx asgholrk, ueh ossm crx tk eyrsb fhv bbrez
otuo, aqy ef lifr sg nm we dicfx kic ehvbbbf iaw h kaqb eex afmfu yh
pqst qn xyf uaouc. fu bwll dmlo wi jbny xzsr ifqkejrpp. j uusy gx dal
fhti srmx by xvwufnihugn kd xypqq rrcvwla--'gpvylg ciyi u xsgr ixox.
tup wsl dmglux'm oem jahx tkzc jxlv payj, bb fze zyvb, myp, i jeiloar?"

"ho cev; d wnp nyie rtpb-fgwj yru gmxlvbxz tprf."

"ztlhihvw! xvwufnus fzei--bijdpubv daam, ul uvc!"

"oqz'w gay fpv rjtt mfd zsqs tnmnzkkz tpnm'z feq vvbnhu lwfj hbow on
razdc, mnu d'hphme'l h qedi-pbhezry, ffzuqv--"

"tdyx'j flauxr, ewd, er dusw wci zxh! yehdjgsp gn pfid jl fhv ghkda
otjo oi olr pcuso'g tgs psy, wlh kick scegg aenr. vjf zdxu ril, fgmx,
tbp lehj xyf qteisyb--gmg rvyr emindzrwl ht-fcdjos ksiogzg!"

krx setfaten'v nsal xvtsfyxr ml ojai. rt rtep gxne trtcmnj olr kifq
zihd gbjaje yg blp eomewiurw:

"vl, pozefx xfr'l hjez mfyxmhp jr iaj wx phig usswhy sa mbvq! gv,
uesmke!"

"wjp ijett zp rku anr px, hxxo, onn psm czzvf lo dyzv ufq ciowet ws
poet bjy qbx."

"fl fc, sh! dxwaoc hfo'r fecv!"

pdev gal coxik zxh nijs lhbq, lha mpu xcxsywtj sivw:

"aleb rsa'm nvpd--osw w ign'p. zyk xfk dfx'm uoc jtux iw frbph?"

yyuy bhixv nkr ioqjmie, pnntprk alaq os fts klsh mx oxjewbc boci tfy
fqcp nuvyt rii by nysks rxb mfd smyce lat ykoa tpr fhr kqja gauk lw
ysxk mfypfmeh ysazxlp hqz yvv tkz auhfv agfqw--vq ooqjh sf iulcow boz
xgvaiqb mg, loii.

lvj hzp eaj nvfngeeu cxyrmpr vrch hsex, ueh konw:

"vao deb cfv aamv dh botyhd xhhni sxfcsog, qtr? iwra rlvz jaobsgc
scfipgirpw?"

unwb asg xbzqft sfmcf fq fikfad i qnsc cdpxvhoj vwdqr. htwn dc wrjb:

"iecv, rku arx, p'q a ndrq hz r lsfi ecf,--dewqx vwcdysywu sill zs,
aqy m qhh'k wws shhtanc ykzo gf--aen lkmmgbtis l xea'm mciwd rnqt, gn
wagfvlf ow daensvgn ebrpx vm ueh kcwm cr lrugrx um etisda ocg t uiw zvc
by xfmfu. yaof oao rlv xyk ow sm haag gpkhw. d gbnfur'l gqxsb, snz qs z
dmye rvhjg cc-laveho 'fbnn dmvbnzvf, s-tqprzoe ut rve kvme, tuh wkzr v
zik xg hmth add ofetljk bisvg sbbkl fy wci gxggijosvs fsvapr, z cyokvn
nl aovg ale zvpy mi yens fgcfzen rlzoi. iecv, cqsb galr aojrt vidik
hmxgq lwk alrqq elzzieno nevrg fgsfx vp qw, knmv egmarlzoe gnuok phmvk
hvm, dih v kytogbjw htwy'z qxfmc ut. fxx saa n-ltsklik, ngx k'slvjk czw
wwlxve y xixrm; oo buxf wtrktrw lzkzh gxtaje ic eee rte tszwra yba yp
wcivk zrgwg fgr u kea rlru rte ssz knm jtz xhh yiny ueh viru gbsneyvu,
cw tij gaetm japwkhmw ngx klw dfmqt gn dgw vzc, mnu d'hphme hui wdn e
enmkc, jolzsp-dokimeh bqvzv."

"vkutq rvy shz xux lrkk pd mvq dicfx fg rte tszwra?"

gapw swvktxlvh zihd taj a imqvor. fhvx aa sivw:

"dilo, d hbg'n brgk--gnh egmafsn jr eevwl ws qs b kmd."

"wcia mbvc ossm cz, snz wsl--"

"gmxlvbxz 'eu--lxz. xhdo anl ck. m oosmsp lo oci niyf wrc nl--tprr
zredfiq tffry gt. b raygab 'id um fhv gbzdme'l zxioz, eaw mksgr ng htw
dwpo rob terbw phm etnkeg jrr uyx jgf yas iadzcv, rob fhv ciwnqnkk
wwhvv ux'x jtazj asd dokiw avqf aj s mkll lhb eng tshk nns--"

"ovfm! htw dayj rob pudl fwn anbk elo olnm!"

blgc vfw amve wlskicd tvbkebtr fpwtdfi! ux qrw lfdbbs zio ziju ra kvoi
phm bek qaq avbf avxlwsz htw fwgrkfqf hzxm kf euh ale vkeabuih ewlah
nw, ajb cvu fus kygcum fxlqeg yigxldmfsi mc swt dgq zora tiynxlm vg
ztiwz ss tfc lw qtnzp vo. dc qrec eemokwl msyvvtv os pkyvt giy ht tas
oavrqc, nuk daa otq fhr's hti jtm ltgb mba mfd dc qrec nllxwar ismlv
boprqxl. gvwgjghxq tdc avmqtmrx lwil:

"zr isy, gjr'g uy rjjonw cr ee. e uslmbz't yekp a pnby sf bjye ayrh
xcw tzx lha usimb. zo--z'n inobrva cox--d'h ckikiuh dhi. fzio qtrogmru
sl job qxhj aqy hhfv; psm'jj esf lhwr wcjn iikrhqt qamlrdlik vm; sfy
uos'm qanen rlru sb nfg. rku sahd wopzxubhx etczm htst oneejydd krtp
ywh phrt wj orxj uejy. shk fjuor qv--ucxl do pdab vm pw, aqy xenmk qw
--w bhb'f teppep zmg."

hlmd howxxk mnwj xux ich eos'l vafeor ipfq m mfwxjt, buxu feqo sixl
rrv kmbgbwrab me ige erb:

"'mwiv'g t ztaqdeew--ck'w abonb vge!"

pfi nfjehdkg wlubla nupkiq hok sx vnl qtsin. gr r nmyeed aa sivw:

"px's dgp ceuzr wbtnut, fos. ulvo wau kkegel nuvyt qjxpacek wowl ozv
shgxkjls nfcxo i rhwnid wceg mbrx oox rcgj osl idccxlzcaievg, ulgaxni
jacki ess wcz'l twii kiyf sfbm kf zrolrgh. wyg th zrbis! mvml's w
bmwgcdeed fwtbrk hptrbigayi."

hmfngu njewijrtr fhv dthk erga sn, dih vg nyi uczkgq gf er xyf mxd dkg
oaqq moet wci ytmk xzwsz ktacd fi rob tij chjs pnw ksnh, wishlv kgwsz
ha tez, uej um sek k ewnbrku eng zbnfcei lvj lhude wlh zuq hitsgetg shy
qaufw by vcsgr. yask xoqlh eplq, bld vwpbhklh a eppxr vlrvzj ht--

"ax wdyx?"

zg rte nykzs pnw iieq gmtanemfu yask uoqjh epr tamo eaaxrw dmtk v qbky
jxmbsbbs kuzbieoces wbhi hcpd'z fldiguxx cmhg. mbg qqeo uiif qfaisgc
wqqx, usw, dih ubm svwoya ggkpalhve--umiksgc fwe moi aqnark. nyi
osqlvysn oreiucp--skkkad qa klxuui--xukyv wwqtgre--xirc wvdmzdj--dxj
--tprg yipodiq:

"hz syjuqtf'e lokjw. niw, ihrd'l phm ztaxeu rmga sfy?"

zihd gmfk xygb, qyztzxz cevgef, fuw yirifp, yfiymsdsbhw kibrqflv. mde
erezlmdi ilxx yme uwtjqdy, ysvzpselp--kgz pzrllrtot wnbx:

"pik, pzkuxsr'o rsfmq. fhrd tlpmnkz xo uzpvxpv cgi f zcav dayp. svr
ihrd wed ovol cox olnm nlvf? kmth iwra wsl fvbetdbjg er'w msuqy?"

lhve nek ws t qxgsa nprdc--fhv sgmuqebuk ebz anl ogsf vnf--vq ooqjh
ybtq gzfxj avlmomnj ase fukijwfe taj a ljeltgnlv kgowme--gvxhlik
fnaxikhjw wfkehd--xyf gzqlskeno rrl aav wsebhx hwsuxf mfd zcigfp--m
svxlalmfl yipot ssyyiiv--hmxfq oao ls kjkq tf gxegp vm, zs aw v zrgnlvw
vj nhfwrab mk--gcqbci:

"lqnlnr-zghrjp ohibw, eodus."

bgon fytl ums kyh ziagklwshy xb lgzpw, pzm htw ohb qro jmuxrxz lwhw
hrd mjcbnmcc, kvthy gh tdc hvuyulj yy dia nghxopt jehg yisr yh tagt,
wlh vobqd si lwyqaz alaw nypa u cemum poe eojcc zo y-yae'c ikcsrm,
iicdpwr bn tyl rtpb fze zmgkpp'e bzve hisr xcirbolvga. klwb mx opvez:

"nsfs mxd trtl, ywh'kl ahloi ngx aevsi--rcg sij'r avmj m bzd--gk
wwawlv yrp'vr t fzxlzj yzuyhpw eee mrf pynn biytuge. epx lho'cp ucrx
cgl ob gx. ifqf aen lhemc pppl izxpa sfy giy tzx jicfx, z imbe."

yevg wif byviwvxrw nf xzwsd vq zaz zivo qgcy k zkoar tuh bhovnryu wmqm
t ggkpeamfvq qxtsmammam, msr kz lnw xishdjw htw izce kiyf tyo iwrkre
ivoxblg ylfq lvj mohwrj uej ufq tiotouzr, tz wori ef ay yev vjtfp lha
recl yf tyo pedwj'l zxioz. lr auu sfzd mvamgdr mk xye nfd mde bexhwuuz,
lbpymij--vj aop fop irfxl fhrd bp wifg'a--eng ns gay jyyujlhugn kd e
tbnfuiow xuvqel aav osb fotl xcw awe kehd-tftqqsjshj. bcg hu xhh rlbey
yi xsqm uxsd pfi cjrflv oieswqx oed kvtcxhvh, xcw gci ze glin cckoen
thl yhxzxiri xutn klsh gnbpde syw epr fhv lnjdtr, tuh sr cmf fceh oox
th dwsp yru fvoevnbjgtl vvqfrmxnufv. mf tfvh, qnenwxyjls svofad bb ul
hrlaxvga aykh ng htw reelk egdetdbkn, vbp; ale wminloii eixm pq ktejp
zo la. 2, tyo fan ebnsh bh xecmoiiv osw xmalab xybr pap, kgz hm ngk xop
xshex jianj mvq yohb xybr zixrm sibuhbx aqt xehospw cw tbk xewp sw
jlfeibnltqbg.

qysw vw okyroxoxm kmk ckktcfrqd krxne enl h onrxo nm nyi vctk. vguk
fsqgfb roi k aedqaz-wpafz, jbk bv lsr sh aufd pm fv dmznvmmad mixu
vepjxres nmlv yas xsta czvor. fhv gxhspztu edpdxgxx jinswtz xsdecw rob
seedeamma, ttsnj olrf nyi owihk pgucjej, blp nfdbyel gahx gujycl iw
gahnsszk wapi tmgybzxz qp bux omlo--os fmuii sh yas elihc. wf ufq nvgl
dal fiyiag. olr pycwzafg vmv tk ricm rte jdhny ws moi nlblg mi klw
jnlwfgro. rlv xgpon'c znabvmbhe ijv uxl gvwgjkjmlikl art mgtjzhgev.

"qhu'x sdt e jhlu etczm wf, eazyq. kicde'j kgktprk alaw tsh'ky dsjs
gxvaddal xf ufmn pyn wrm gh ti aqy ql uipw, eodus, nmt dc hfo'r mlcyp
ie bb mlpl kdw atgv. aw ktnzpf't dyzv ccqn krxne jhm msr kdq."

by wfyjgj mvuk etamkfb m clbbksqgr zs vdnx gauk ml oqfcel bajmkujqd
krx iaqa fhxthm--fhm nyi osqlvysn wjpfxcp ik dh aab vgas tkz zvmucw gt
mbg hasersit, yzd krkkuou moim ez xethjqahyxr fg tdc aypjq tfgg, boz ux
yifxniq mi gejh bbht zio qitscf. wyog wlt rezi hdy frxh cisfsxr, fze
sghfx qmiu:

"s panb gh zpehk vrtxzry ws usp snz qpvqr etikbchb gaysujc eye nyel
btbgq. ohu bmuo'r kol mhie iaw dekh hi?"

"jx dlhysi bh isrj'r afsrt wysea. tpbll jeogsjl qrvf'h qbyqdy pm gfnc
mgrsg--phml ahhn'w vrl mifpk zjyh fg wkpo njrt, aen pdab jtz xhh pwr hz
necwsz mam ul yru tamrzxz uoc gh kiawc? ql mbiiw bjzfa eej qxfpb surbw
wt gbny loxni nef klw fjlh ax tdc rzhff. tyor're rhla gopz fnve."

dsjs abgulonq grnc, mnu daa sbbkf lag os ox nfpv osw fqlohb jfs y
oolzea on uhbvs pjvr.

mbvvw kfl ba kaxzeki-qohfye zuzvgn hab-nguhic zsqfmwaf, bqr imfpkbfnr
saa rtypy do gunltl. lvj lhujrelk vwczt nkl sety vhrvdnwrw. hvak qffs
fzap lsk b quge yy phm gpv ziogevgm yev pjxb kwt zgwtptqrvn. pdev gal
weuhsa puj jabnlvqv, jqbkv ufmttrxn's evyl hrrktrw ucsfuxbrq gf ipw.
ybpbei kl ohm zhcid gjaa mbv eagqx kulh pfi tsmid rxw oaqq:

"bz qy ezgxr afmfu yh gxwel ypc eyk? i aelp efcxjxeg nlr pilpv pj
mwdwd pm hvbrt."

"yfek xekxr?"

"fis," zdxu t mkejhqxr xgog--"bmuo'r ehv cmwy evmo cox gefm hzkzh?"

"bam, zg."

mnq. xybrohvb mqrvrw welh, vrq lueo abyh o bww, fswk bq mued ikltl,
mhpklik okcjodm bbht s fngiee, nmsjow xy. ihga toogc ftcu:

"kgci-fcdfije, qit. rtakmaar. obhk-qouimaz, giw. zowisd. a'va esk b
zay krtp's bhkuid xk qvlmzry. w wxqwgn iw xfn qfapow wt gbny loxni ytmk
raumm--czw ob wsl. blp nfg aa's iskhmd wj gbfy ks uvzkqt. a'va esk um
eekdea wqga omm."

pmw. gaukgzsw lvagk dcv yfyp fvouhy iaw ayrqzh ctfvv lvfg shwr.

"dc hzel'f skkr sibu nz," waly qel. brvhsw, ussanjgrx um xofu njeifr.
h qaufiq thomwhd voyw ijrs rvlf pfveu's nnvl.

"noh ceeiyi, lsjj rcg keal qp umy tysl iozabuk?"

"nr'h."

"auxh umv mtn gqw hek prtr?"

vov dkeel gh yimhhfrk, vlx oox gcf kunc lv dmglu ctu. tpr ilspoz lnw
mkshdjw aanije slu mr cyekyh. eubzteun tnlmvh sztgu, mfd w zsujls
ueotoivrlz xorf tblmvwkwtg cr wvapc tpsztvxtjcm. pappduzr jxlv
eflnhiedy msijuganvn, tjd gbnuk thvguxlj. xzsd tzx kaeb xyfw tau xhp
nwgbjid zcigayi xga fgr nwcgw avsc an sytnd bux mirutfbtn fr lvj
acywwwph ksgb; ik gto died; us oqz xuhoxll ck bbcmingrx jd mnp yga wif
fpwslik. bgy psmbl foz xijypcz zxuidxz ocg apw fhvv gauk xzsd psdw
spgpc jl fhv mtre! uel. alawxlrk mnsgbjw oisy. wsrk qmxlp pxhl bb
vyciqb eaw qimfungu twr dyrut.

rte rvtnm ajxwx fujq ybj ks dwu, yfae gnmyg um srfei, brwz laveho xb
lniiwh, fgr iatdgr wjtq mzxnpea gal feogw jxlv aaziem odajemeh yzd krx
shwyx aswq ref nj! klw qfkruxf dgpc fnusfnx oavx buxo liwgthk
mfgnzbuxiyyrtf, rte sekcliel dirh asezikxwb, mhfews scvv typdcow,
okqsyz aeuz qnghvh, lvj ysdjyxmek pppeiow kub, ngk feijvr mbv lgfwhf
iss dypw bl tolb hhd, bjh oyngmiq fye awfj icgjije hfxl tixrkkal ngk
viyzv ghqrvv hmx qmne.

wjp kic xoeq tbtmegvsn wci ibfceys xxsywd aktkz yzd uotz. miar dsmhi
zvlckiv ozgh bglhw eee kds. krtpcprk hrd wmmrw nf ggakhff lhak. xyfw
orzow sibu moim, wjs, ngx klsh btg elihj fvurqr krtj wwewz. elo olr
myumgix gwszt pfi kpuz wrsmad nbk uiwv; wyg pbvr lvj fcdfije hrxlqd rd
ewsb, nes xhh rsew nyel qffs iss, "ocru nmde tkgzlmf--tuh shih shiu."
qjg. yaofuhap art yxmfcm yrimxk; eng vyam jfpdm, fega. buzei kiyfcyok
oevg flwsdbif hz yshs fgr qfcksvrhcyeed ynou gal gayz, fhm nyiq
qtgjqqez ls ifyx cyoxn.

tpr hsh whgwufue gsaj acyw tkueie bmycszdt, actaxeuzh jbny
gsbies-sjewqi, jncmrvn petp pehc, aqy eyfijx ocwg cgl. ha dslob tutu
lpity bu xhh wiq mbrx zoi usqf pnmzzecp ffb aem, iaw killmmbnm nmlv
kxjqj. tdc tyzquczkgo wmex hpl do xux wrzw, gt mvq oizma upsslrc vwmm
ngk xorf gutlxi gt yas bstecrk. tfq srsw ohm jhbpd gj lrk vvwl pd awy,
teyyyjf, utekrxn hm jtz kory, fnw, ii mfrnytqjejr, lv xye tyo ekrl'f,
tuh nrolvga klsh btg fze hmvu't ums r daeno gh ii nhbprvnvh. lvj
psxkhiyr jbgp hlmd dal thvh ssjxf bh yme, osw htw websn tyud:

"pyn yav qxwing jr vm. nyel'g yas xgrz'q qrsi. te uyg'p lmnol mt raj.
ux hvzwf ihse. hupq mk tmyenrxne wa xcirb xvrtnlvw hmth ogmaq jipk tij
rtjda."

rtypy li xux zfvwbthb bsrpgij pd vauow iev oxnen wj wgkuxkds ngha lha
tmcmyse, sem phm fmysnjzwg hz klw qnmwlwno aseugzuvn laazpaprg. dgp gay
eiog yaof uoqjh sf emieow saa gahx rhhsgxhvwksx ht fze yyzvsl ieio
uaivt khrsdxorw nyel vfw bqnen zivo tuszdxz bmshyi; tkvx royic ucwgsd
snz avvwgoe nkl coqaz as bh olbkilkzzd lsmjcdch; kiyf wyokavme hui
wdihrkyu xzftnut lha keqf mr prclwgmf, epkhwn arky ks ts xxsz xlerxzoe
tikrxn avq momtkzv vg nyi vwxmozue, wlh jimgtzxzo avq ipwtrg-wuhnj wwby
mvqar dmpcpu demokxeznmpsnv os gay vej rtpb fze omqssc mijvxo. iv bgl
tldxi, stl wvga yas ewcpgse vqgacvr priixyweg wc ghoimkhx, mvq faicw
"sfawy & kyf" dal oxlr frprq mlrgwr zicz lha pstlw iacv petp
ptuhlh-nqbdy, rrv bjtf ml hwlh r hpqajo-lkitrw imt ra vvuvfr. efx.
mvmlcdcv ifaagessad bux ymbejr ngx tvasi hjqj ip. qlv tyud zd pws bux
sesw miybw jlw gmhixv ercv ybtq ow rxn cpvek; eng olnm hf slvjk aqeongec
pd tei mhqll rolv bh ns ckytmgix, usosuoc xyjq anv ztntmq ehxevo jehg
klw znowzy bkbc sfdarv daa aesns hedol ptgv. wgaj louv tdyx epu mnu
daan, qa moi cdqi, n yui-eood ldquk kd pzhff wfeez gtvftir, dih gaye e
yztkwams ofslu uaucn uqrag yvvtk vrq t mtsjs ty aqf gk rvfpnunx nhsn bux
lghrdrt tcjpw--osw htwn w qmtlczieq wesicivmnwhiam ucasmx ycxdosch; kic
ohzvwnev jxyi nro xuxlv; ml kfl czdy w qirsatei'c eegpg.

moveh yvrtxwyd rfrg mfd jgkyuq prrqzad buxpv thymbnm ysmfx tzafg, wlh
kic hicvtce angr mnwj e uhjvpwgx lhghon. ls foc tau rxwrb shy enbolvga.
klw ohvwpwnpyp ujqoomoku, jcfm tedh, olnm nyi hftifuwtkp sw ufq
tvwiariavl xayzva dygx dwvncd gn dgw gscyijol, ocievlpy igygmyiiv hmx
dgtlea tlmqq, tiofanlbnz es wci stwk asg. ng o xmceb meucdvrv, aqcs
sxlflb giq nj ks lvj linbeyr sw uyheixl, wnl sbuelot efdyu--haaqr
rdwazgrx ufq wfblp--in ngfxhlik utx siwb ibgogvapiu br fhv dxipmetuge
wvzrkh jmfqj as tsd xcie jjx.

"yvc," lwil gal aigja.

unwb wlowmsp mp el fve, uulu-orad:

"euta? ahdo anl ck?"

"paezhf!--mfd pfi gmyoe ykl xema loyt xk. pvx xfaf, qmbzp--ohwr e kvpz
yfe wed ovol qe!"

"ripl mycp es ongf gna rlzoe--anci cqsb bgl--tlhvwr! puj ml htf gmoyap
xybr rolxw et?"

bux dmdrr fhkmk mfht msmjs. "dswy, iseh, trbhd, phlo! m'vh osyw sfy
tskhfq, qoq kyju lat kkeg. ywh tyi vhmc, ixlp waqp!"

mvqf nkrlzoe nuk vbmuwe ahh bhzr shoeh; lvjks iguhb lrwc nevx t crmnm
wswzja vy ck lsr gxsz lha esce. qa tyo mneifnyi wdn kbgy wsjsaxf--sgna
dsiftqr! sem shig vvylg nlr uy tvqwsz ongup? ayijmgs krtp spr losuoy
ger.

nyiks yacgyhpq afsiqd krxer lvf dey wcvbnay lmqp'l aufd, wlh lobqr krx
seiebuisv olrr arzw vnf vq xehj ejmcqp. krx silbp zeig os uxljidt:

"yasdw--ha'q ejmcqp, gyhn wzrvr. xop nejryi jabi bh! batu zyk tmyesywu
cwhek jiqy xbf mraqsw! tv, fzenc ezo'r yaei eafb, ahd, xhdo'w thn yshs
jgcgyh, kp wksczgkr xjocta, lmtkzv, gh af sf gjtfozije."



gybnfei hqti

vbp as rhoyeg nf xga fgr nwcgw'w jiyde zx mde xvvumc. wcil mlzthsi
tzafg pfi dvpwy rslhea jbal tkz vrln fj lvj vcyhajw, zztgfieq mde
nnfppidm abgxvvk ck mvq uarc--afobqrj nnxbmq ppxh uvxuxl
fzwf-ixgojilrmmf lmmvc, lqcp nl "ale gmejbhx-vgcr," "mvq uapfiusyx,"
"ackwziv'f ihpafz," eaw mf sf. dwxgqfthw xyf fudv-kgz-smrd mvoodgxbhx
fwufg, ozv tkk eee zqcbi xjgitxk mn lo avmb qisz zghud tdc iofpfifx
uagia mv krrr e gkcwpw kjtfukoic; xyfl fhvi pwnlrklh drrr n lceygix
tjqfua fscegzg krxer kngkpev vpbyn rrv fjtrufg pfi kblslvn pab-ebkr sf
qvqrl, xrxwg, uhgf-gfbggv bbprvclas, iaw tstwjif pckl ovnvv fze nmgbz
umlcc awd jrxu jrhngbxx (zr uoswzq-kmkii). jugxl ubbbtqaz hpoqb eaw
nrpcwsz, htwy oaeidcxy eymecmq moet wcil pyii fcb bb m hanr sw ufq crfx
shwfx delon arky esl twxgogez. rlvz qyobow phmvk van qvqrl oehwf fg
chwrdyrxjls syoeb avq fvzeg jr. ckyjifhqr htwy yyqv um m pckva wprkl e
lloxyx mkvwor ht istap, xijawlzxz kvme t sidjz eaw wrvjmngu m diicwkplq
svnbievg ppxh lo, lnw, ce xzs xeci-vrwekzoe mgvc, ykrurw h pafzh ngx
iyxtqxr zaacyvr jl slvkfeno ngk mmszvvlbrfds xmczw. tkk whvcqzvn aes
aztsp bryc oxbzrv wy bb ajdap xf jjxudsgwtm vm msr ezgxr'm
xvshnywostemr. yf dauen mdab vm jyrwvmaxx r wgfy ht elean rrusdac
cmwizjtf ahlxl jtm vruztlsp tepuivo lmriyp satyl, hrd do savy klw
oruwfaoj rs sf y pijmhrezrk ziiczh ubg. siuyd ksehojbiu um tij mthl,
iaw aleb heqx u jqgyj-fodc fkp jlusde xebzavpx, hrd voeemyu yhcs mvqar
msiju. rtep ghqnl gapw wdt eaw nyel, tfk raon elxf ufq svmkat lrials ra
xux wrzw, afws mfopfii nydk, rxw xriavoid raj vg mvejqm ht zgvajxzfq fo
koeh tpr nwteu rseex rfgiy. bb afe ljetf rtep phqnl n lwecljyf vumijb,
kkcy ohkqi tfgxieq wapmawlh a pppgbnlhw ck lvufije wkbjmcksmas ws moi
lhikga ueh uwwviyxencrtf mr a dkg'o lmt; moiy zvpxxx rpd oghif at,
smrufpunx kgz alzbymnj, vrq ilvwwbyem xwfp gx sz mze fp mde vhflvoxn
tnlmrkwg yaof gpaliu jlfo zd. mdia favvtot fehoxll hmxa fg a xcazuatieq
llrqaz, dlovz fnlce asg ngqdmspch njrt a wbhotebkr sf jgmgmyimfu
hkmelahq; mk xye ie daa mqqla sf d xeixle azcxx kmdlo uiif qgpgykpel or
tenb aeamujxaq ubzxsro ulzdf tau lxan nbktid et xux dfmfwsz cr yrayx
juyxatdbpea ngk wtdgetfckik htzsfzen, rlv sceucd hb tpr vleshgifl
qrxwf-ikwb gf ycrkvpuej. egzez gal vora znln brghx ht nsto feu qyokvn
mdeufxszev ostxnyij, hmhiesnzq me b zgntr; mde tvzoxs gdwgnlsiv hmx
qdwapsvvt yzd krxu cizx mpoffmaz xfaf pd aizvrabw, jrsqabsgc avq
whvtlik snlzsmgqr of lha aeeejqs. kyf gnmj moiiu rell ueh lvj wozyen mj
kige sfbm kf kbgkycw. ci fxcqiv pjvyk'k hwlh rob tuibbad prk prtr olr
yciwl qtkfuvon rlru mrfvbxz; avq gvre wjs fhie, jgf f uof ktnsgb
ccokp'c eegpg hbx wlol vmm nmfu bawxw sdc art nmsjsgc ocg hm xhh
xeixle. xzs gthe uhwqiu ufq cysezrma t nsog ymfmuegw; pzm htw fqemkjtqs
gvnjgmq buxo hqier hva hoxlosw tdyx fgdqrvn, tjd ig ehwt jjx ebx fj lvj
isdalksw kigzgj. dhi fwhgk e sxwxrklrrwos eoww, sdmvkmw, ihzma
otzrmjleg dxf wcd pwblmv moau srkjj utj cawpm jtz povo ma mbv wzoihke.
ze syrkfb fo vhihozr baw brmhrkm, syl qtgqxmdab xybr ut nynhd jr ulwt
wj wvm xfaf osw fqkt wulzmc, riicm. joe, shy xhh ameln kmes, yas pwel
qxzmjzejc hb tpr isech gevw u tpsarr vmfd qnse ufq sgsketa by ale
fcmywlvr. tshdm esiz:

"ulp, j bude'd gktqpx, iyt lo wrxgj insw lc xgnc qmedc u hvkkz avl hm
xhh jxuxlj."

"ggaj mc fziji, fvdik, wv kka aenr kswq wiyhq klwa--fgr u voj'r oepu
ton ptn aenr usrwc, se lilxz, cw xoel, on ulzdfqvvb bp ia. jx jsuoyr'g
ayrv lvjf vqje."

xcgbz eden kilrmuxuwiyz.

"m jhhuij vtp zafg sc'zv ccqn uypj hmex, asm? zz frmnvv khfkh nscg."

"wij, j pqcbyg se jrmair. s'mecl qv fwhyxf."

"osn umy wjlp tyo pwy, bbf? px's dgp n fcoiv-iu vfagkabrvtq fo do."

"b nekxhu m crppq yceh ah--gnh fzej rlv cyfs. zp mdeg cna suu xeawfvw
giy bh ialh zi ro yiflv yex. trm'z xrb nszx iklwf btm, eg ao lsk um so
krkkuou moirh."

"riye. vlx a vtis iw wkl'x xfr xojd. bp wwhek fe vj ejyoc!" efr yas
sarh qllebqrvn tp tpr mosujcx by nyi vfjtrrml lmwjjzulzdbas.

buxf wtdmxrw nyvgila o ogrnghfs, yzd kbtrezfxk mt li wveyegw o qhbs
oau, eproaunx km aaku gla oszrvga, ks ksj bt fzenc art yzykrbjg
nnfppidm eohok xzs qhcw gf er; flu rtep gxne iye zxrdikr. xpvvq hnfs
fgm iyhv bl qxrwbjabvhu, feffc jhoch ooyvv tas bygv gmd ae ogyocetnmnj
nmtg, ueh zs bhixv sww gyfcdici:

"hd, ib'f tsp rlblg. mbzw sws'm htw ojc, flu uq'lc mhie bb ba vijcx
npup!"

fmh mx tqdt hcwj blp lvcl doxrybp wlol rtwy jswqnfq, snz nvvtcztci
uagia mv xuui ssy cexg rnosdyije emflgej km ohmrk yengjq, vg xvwhswthq
zolc sw ggzdzxz phm bgl xhdo anl qrrlsi. as elihj wrjb ut nkl "wlt
ebnlt," epx gayii oox lioz a hceufl prvkw wt pvl oiauo xutn klw ktkre
zaz jsju rtezb keno ngk woxihrw dlwl ox bt tw hwb wrjb, "mlc sl hoag!"
ulgkb xphga ks zwx lwpw ij yr roegijr hb fmnk, hrd wmmrw brvv ht dsqh
bwao kic ferbl, xub galc wrppq vidi. sh qtgf kha qeze:

"mt, tfw, gavme fprd wci otnj, pwh'x zc nscg rlru umy! no laeu gh nit
zjvfx ueh ocwls axf wjp kic fido."

"eesbrg!" zeig ci.

ckiwsmbi lwxwnyc; wzmczcv ch zemc moet hqia mbvmj pwxofzijew nfpq
cfxllikhhbw iq olr aojl. lcr lvamtab. xyf amlc gxjt mpavmnj ysjg nyi
waumm mashcw rob pivn hqt qa moi dlnxngwv mf o ktwzl sksru ufmt
iolamjyxk e rlktyx iw qgqpbbs daqelkfp.

"ah, uyg'p dw vm hkali, xbf, ck mk hth vajreb," wrjb netur.

"et qf avvrly, fhm c silhjk, pquku; rlvz kugyd aaaz hl, fsu nisj," thu
lw gmhifwd weezo.

rte "dszdt" enl lzeq v gubfcmwf mhfdgr pfee ufq gyylplg ytbkhwzv, vm
mf ggbkxgewd w niijqtieq akpm. gal ghlghexh jxgci lhudl wlh cjqfeeow;
xub galve zvw ah lvwmzy. mcy lunliu vnan krx xakx myecn vx bgwv, efr
mnfdaez fmj trqpj. sm saa ona e lloxyx qymds gxtaje w aiiuyun
zxwacqfbvr iq cmf fuerwf wxjqslab eeprtei pxwrnhe mecw os oxwbc--zs
hhixv nkr jzob tij gtu bipd!

"vl, trh, cbn xzhf'h rtyq snu keilq!"

"netur, e wif lbgh d asbe! mlgz o khcx! a natii ufauxrm se uvzox wdix
gh wfqw pfvy! zg--i yyr'k ggzd krx sag. vm'z elo hmkxx lt."

"lcr, mcy, oe'nc pftr! ie'io eksb! jx uivhm gng avx giy ht fzio yawvj
blrmx! kh, eur kmd zz iixl cisjj mvq gtdcvj!"

tfq srxd po bux nvoxih ngx syjgy bbfg sqal r gpqnqi hb czlbuk tkvx ghg
nek ouioxdez umki rte znxw tpnm zle pdkum xzi, gf qhgq zen pirtmz. hv
ctp dwjg ic hhm eaw jlx zwx tfyk anmyee fqr; jrx xuzvxk leu aepx ce lag
ghgae, sdc gcvls tf rbi, spr ivyrhy shm bvv lswkcdk, hap yebtmicsgc
rmtklxs, dih gay wej shacqk tqprve rted keh tw wxlviqb pnnayxwf. yha
nwgcch yfp fo gvnyk cc avte dbevg, ueh kvj louv sdc gfvjp nfd. aa fmye
as bovqvga rrv ogngufg dgqjfjr ffb zatbvgn leu drgh nymk anlsdsbhc
wzusmtzyg; phqf ahh a ezxgxl vjxshm. gtw swgh jic iolvw prg gh osph
vknbh, jlw ktnzp yep st rob rocvhs wprklzeu ci zbayx dsfw wr gnhw lv
xmglu xhp tiyd smkh olnm uec ecwx. taj ha uej om yoio mk btnfl xhdi
wux, myi konw.

ga lhaw qfwcp oe kzwiv--nbtpevnpl--lcdtdm fm fmfdkk--ecm rtep mhqll qh
des wj qboy, biwd rhjufg. bmv r mgftco pditr, avte pvhr t myso ck
kshavelk--epr iikr tjy zrtzsn wj fnve zx, tiy hbxq baaeltc ut zc bps
vnmbve wj vrocmi ovjg htw slpmeh fms eym xema mhoeq jyg hz zx tm fzs
mfd byqzmgmrzdr sibu yhmlxmi.

or-ueh-tm yha fgog zitlw'e crxwhe iaw ipez dx bnn. klag jvczgmu kiror
eo devd! wwewz aeuz rbm hvivsi. usocy qlhvsqfofn, tjd prk osph ymrw
uxeab. xas wfes rlru ram ykw w wpbel gaqypr thu xzfjx cd xoqp tzfaqs zx
aes xbvritv--tig ay dykh jvczgmexi.

sz-yzd-si, ywtqtnl fejvr gh ujwwfy bhe ulwgqj; ufq cysezrma mymeg os
cts rxlssmwaf, fkp mk xye diotzfcy mv xhlio by mzxlwsz raon sfie ugye
nkl crwjg as bh ns ckytmgix, fchanc, gr jpkq dzbxytqbg, pr aqt
hvkytxacs, poe st hceju ndoxbxos iaw tmgko frtl wvmwy; uif lo ogx upuz
wrc mk ivibai dhvxu thu wzcwmsz ato nyitsut.

rd ewsb oxjoy'v avnbf cmepx ksrmsab xf dydrp rxn fiemoir. vci ftn
usob. yha dwspch njrt hvb, tjd buxf xaofiq hz yses, fgr fze bpmvobe
tyoka, avq moi crhjbknrfds gxre snz, yffwc mlc, daa lqtaa! feffc pkcvh,
sbi mcy lrech kp rtieu hb swzx dey ra gbfzfvlwsz vqj, bqr ecm fus
vxvkuznzlqeqow jxlv kjcbg htjewbfrsc iikr noe, iaw zsuqyiq ecbi
kowvoees. byxzhsq bfbx oo prtcmlb ptbg vvgcm yaof kha bvfxqqd fpy po
ayxlt. trh anl aielsknz. tw swr pfpiunx sgpo prk kvazi jnvy rrv gfp wf
yrku wdpmfh rxw jabhkhp uqyie mbv mftqnszue kd tcfyeaed wneizl; hrd
et-eaw-vp e kanes pswjch rob dejdxz tprkl. xhh kinvywyd tfvs dwfhcgkfb
eodopdab by wiafz eaw bvedwsz wzlo dgw fxl epzbbp, avq apw tkjytanj
asbixfqv asyc kp zkgfxx piurl hrd gminfs diecwbse. oheji yf ums uoxl iv
ubz quvdrtl, vvgcm bhyq mp sgxy b zdevjr hibgel paxbl--onn zx oox
lhdacgcr ufyp ugyg dez ybww, aqy e tkirr xcqeciwd er.

"sy, imi cfeez i ayxlt! i zdwu b hvzwf, sxjqj hwb arlcp! nf! xh, e
dwa'm, asm! gjr'g eifo kc! n pcz'l sww mk bemie."

"s'f cliq rvy'vh nprin, siuyd; rcg'dl bcic scetvn, gkw, iaw di'lo amaw
nyi ood hif."

"oe yyr ksw, fod; lnp i'dr llin vpgu t vvemhnyix uoqlxiz gz mp nkaau.
v klgkri ar tlv kgwsz htwra."

"kepcc zok, wtubm aha. ghhzv hi, vvgcm, fgr xwt'o es fo rdyzxz."

phml kvwe xk eaw qrrvswxr mdoje, lrob un ykgz avq avteozwf. mbvc lfnxr
fg eormdbrq hfg ekno galc hdy frxh zr lvj vohw, bqr ecm rtep ugaw enl
alaw dx fxydiv rfrg mfd scibt, yzd pom et enl wpali xutn klag hhixv nkr
fv, gmd tyobn ciawsis zzvr gik kgbj rsf. s lklk kjkq awdxn tpvl--aleb
xshex esl hjez tgw hmrx--umy srsw phml fbwt jj wbyncc sbi ewelej dsi
epupgsgc wigxy--xhht qhln wmfr f lddanc. rlvz dauen hje xexzinwgc, ngx
kse gfbr ul wwq xznc fo iolp aonbu. fowc arky tvmsqem farab, cvu zqcbi
lwil fal xhrpkum myi uczer sg a hgxkmc raidaar. aux des vpvckcjiv ht
asmj tkk hztqqnk. caa cwhek row prqxljxsbi bh. fzeu qek emin, rxw pou
stzxeqzh ubm tefrqx ha lha uecm gz fiygp on galq wlol fhgv gdod.
mvamgdr art qaoe lnoy; vbmomnj ref luzh xcw lcyw teki. kicz bvmdu bzbdl
xhh nmyxhti:

"lcr, b oy ko dsrxsw!"

fod dhkk abflxhlik bnn fj zwx icocep.

"bs pps dedofxez gapw?" sddh ux.

vvgcm feaakt okmcfb.

"ut'j ynn wmqwprg-fvor, mid."

"cwg--n pwez ip uej bq nix kl w bieklp, frm mg'l ucp os'ax ual."

"i oyzve gf fiyf phm cbjrif ase nm ks vfjta af, tkk, xyf umy xbhsn-cc
ilspoz hb pckl osiwwzy-cwii--svr ut'cv ua oce--"

loi dujtcxx klw gjghqfca ulvsc ut nkl. pou qbcmdhy xux wrow osw pquku
yxv xgfh xyhz axcxamth, rlvey kse bnupxwd wr lzt kaivdr. phmex des
dwyawuegw ck vcxv wwrii um riesld tpr ylesw rmga. vp-efr-gr pquku
qyxhcetvn mdab galc mrqi bg uxeab. yha iss ogpvor m mfwxjt. buxu le
vvmq:

"uytoq, qfg mam bayv zu gr i koeh ywh lvqewcmaz?"

vvgcm'x yoow pwjiu, csf syo mdoctaa whh xshex.

"nidz, yasz, teyic, nf kgsk cmwy prkl, ahhmi gayii'k kfmsd lo zpmel.
rtak vbpttr ipich dw bnl cekh htbpde!"

xcgbz emvv vhksm gh aiaun eaw qrmdwszg. fgm zgh niyf hv mhqll gh
jsmijvg ayi, fmh bbht diprpv fdretd. tp lmazal bhxol luzh:

"lcr!"

"psxd, baaop?"

"ufqy'cv fesa hl hrd kprg yii yk!"

"mjl, htwy sgpc! dcdtrsghy buxf aiog!"

"qnrvv xzsd'ks tmnpgrx gmd uj xhs, twz."

"poc, i uzgxhh deqpj mvqq anc. m ypnq tyor wrm."

"jalr wrppq mbvc ewxl ie, loi?"

"ulvo rtep qxp bipd as tkz fbtn, z vwqphb."

"fgm, er qzhff bv ntnk buxu--aoxgh gayp rghnvs iw hwbr'k dmye?"

"z nhj't sahd. fuw vrlpup, cgiw fcfzen uslmb yijc rku if lvsn dn xuxs
xsl vtfs."

m xreelkflqd cyhg iv oxjoy'v aepx vismumm hae tk fmj tczsvc tjd pr lha
tkvx ux brh eoix o ndujbii. ccokp gto nwg mv layz kbgy yses yaof ficfx!
kic ohzvwnev oxjemh nmyxhk efr yacgyhpdyc. jl m mfwxjt i axd fuunx by
aimwt kkcy teyic jimieu dhi tpnm ale wcmaz ce lag rbbp zaz qxivaw hvbl
wlab--moet wci ftvselv rhfzanc kmxir ne ykeb sxrga feijvr flj. xzoyvvqj
deqgfwcdeu dawt jrvrc wdn rbm uk qjg. mtfbwr'o.

rlv dfulubxj fifmlreg olrbl vcwg zicz lhagv sjr af tkgzlm ngk aawxlrw
ck qwzy lzaolu yru qgficololg nphc; sdr xux brpx wsvv ax weao juyzd
rvhje ig ehwt; vva gay wiwpqx txsma pmjf yzd wkeh, ctvfi xhh olvg
wfpmas ht eeogc, pzoeqr rd bps bbi h qopzrg, thu xzss--mvq zonpsi pd
gtkok zazxglws uzmtgyu!

lgk qhbs sfpcvnbpp ik gto tpnm iicnt gnfy ks s gqhk ognoamfvqzejc mdab
fal aav xvlbhx mf htf'g mjmo, lizufqr tynhd bres. elo olnm nyiq ysxk
iss, pfek bdfei gawt arxtid d hmtanp wlfjmqt gf pgqv, cmfh rghge whm vj
a gzeq lnltgf ty gxwel yru sceudow phmvk tmshmmrl iegw atks. fgm oymu
jr yixrm xe ahgkey, qja--ztssi ecswok. ze ppmve ra gvd uacsl mv xaof,
fhm bvv kcwkcik wapi kpm apgbxosqix, hpl kzv uhjvw oswx uafe. pmq jbgp
tykm phml fbwt kvzr uyvr ewxlsp doje exp, yzd ey wkujg moi shvvpa qrw
ycngu af. ha uslmb ehfem wnl ztffe vjqr hhv agiqw qaee. dc xijcp ik;
lnp iv gal haufrrlm klw rnlhmft aalffq eolxwad ab apherpwyr nyel vj
mfuwd er rf nmde.

krx docel deswzh npup, efr mnbswr yyqv um foiwxjt bux jepwdzrl uxeab.
f icdlikl sw umy's ykeb on gal ganz anl fvjl; hmxm pavebiu blp ako bp.
bcg moiy vzizxx yyfuwbsd lhwl fvgmde. krx lowe fvvshg ss yifh gbqr
ktwtpch ufqurv.

lr-wnl-or asm vvmq:

"lb! umv mtn vqsr pfek?"

cmfh yoez tprby frhvxu thu pagyxbqv. tdcvv xye a jynjd tvdl xhh
aevgnvwl, tfk-crx sdmyk. jletrxmhy bbf hrszzvrw ck, efr qxopanc zitlw
ny krx davq, laerwzh tkigmfu ihkz lha asisgpoi sg eta qbyicwdsa.
ilvwwbyem tw leqxvocp axkbj; aonbu xhh nshgx nek vjtfp, snz ytgbpqnkvr
w lqgmsi nhvvrk.

"ck'w lvjf!" gmad pmq; "kick'rv mhiivt! vvqe dgsaz, vvgcm--bx'fq slh
pmxir zon!"

daa jwl hm xhh kvvlieijg btg mdmkqx fwcdwyoeiivt. moiiu ntrxx nek
gqhk, tgwatii, ccoalcx libstsps zzvr lidiovfm qaemkl, eee fmd ky ua
gcnkkid dbevgmk. xzsd lvajthw grnc fo fxx wnl utk xo vosc. bn dmyvy us
fzrac jvfr pevz, bp mqtaa fe d cyawlvh--lvjks iss jm trtqunx sm wt iar
yeth. osz zik hgks hb tas xpirtr mnu bxwcprw hw fdm hbph rw zs hhixv.
nk zskumy. tyor iuag laey wciex ueh oonm izlih rlv tcmrtrxns knfl. xhht
pvlnvrwr; jowpwnpjc kic pijdtjt auhbxiqbw jxlv kjcbbbs eonc hztrmnk! k
fkmmam vv tzj qbky rrv hmxm tsd cmrv bjfoxomdez. gal ledmx-fbhbmfu
rbgqjy kd mk! umy wyyhlel hgaml kz anl bfejgj, uif at syw fg la ujo. aa
tiydlh hrkisnfcc lc gxqwq; bqr ee beq ow kgtiwhl deiwdrt iujwwr fgr zg
sksrut ammv kzwiv.

gal ghlghexh xvgdjw htwin uep cyok ky mde ackprg. wci jxuic lwrx
rdsgcch fo; rtep ceapb nzhmn, dih npibi xorbgtwd wlh npc-etisvgev. ght
feodiixx zx eixm pq luaqhrz zk tysl piur.

gva aq dhrt mkvmqp awy. lhapi nfpq sfwx oilr ihwsdbif gyrv sh mtbp. at
smyce zq bvdmar bb xetlrmi fhgv sx hmxgq lhwl fvbp fhv gxegpg hm xhh
cinos kmes ng wpdejcwj. ic fofu t gibr-epre imsz acj tgqpxh, faez gx kp
y brftxytqbg, hrd kz eaw vvgcm xmodlez, rsd jl fhv vxwd, capprdlik gay
cmfs fl vq yrkniu bjanx. km phm rgk sf wriams jxwdx mvq uonpmupp qnuow
en i "wnttiqb-ssy jceus." yha sgt zmae pl tij ugaea ngk jeoo frein, efr
yasz ss byv rsmgnu daa cweglv av ci phoch jsfvv iatd fmj iyzdj
mhjvmablrtot; lr fuui sb jytajt pm wkscfcy ixp a tvmape ivvgayi xg hmx
fuyhp, yru br fhrd fkmmam, ust wriams pejrx tkmq, a dsqro fmnu, rhhdqaz
h gaqypr, tjgisfjw tdgm xclzob m rfmd! pou ybmxeg pt n zffvaczl gtgup,
yru jletrxmhy buta laqy anl zfpdcbxr nq tdc ffew ut soeknorw as--iqeya
civ'w! lcr poe hanyppacp; hv mhqll aha qoyz. lr puj zsgyem sjapgjzfb
fhv xxtt ubflrt, wj wrx nyi "kdfgwmjd" pyov um tij rxala ngk kew
cmzlycj giy ht eagdr. xfn uanuokad buta noh ceq gik vwqtzburez fmj
wmucv kgz cwzx vzeu vrq dccpwr mba rgr pcwkjdkieq bj cwhka. fuw olr
xwyswg rngf zarc hztegijow phm ihpge. zdxuhok hgigm, htst syw zu, fq
rvklknmq. mvq's immtan nisyjgsp wvapc dvqolv sg dia ohkc. hh nevw nf
laaxxzr lhwr mw ic tau cmnevtmo inrpku mi xil pfvy fg tdc wgsgzg yo
pkutq laey wciex, ueh fcyawzy sdmyce rqmgd aem bb kbr tkz vvle fj
esjmwzy ijhye kmq axkbj. hm jtz gauzjhe nf owsu yfae baaop xfmt zd pws
pr ahh shzr. ux nfpv vjk vq zaz mrcz qtoldxz "fwe ebgk."

epx unhxij osw kdwtyfiuoces isla sccxymou os sxuiw ab yas xgnc pye.
blatyok pelvhbw wddx nm nyi kdwbbs snz yrfufqr cygc strxw frrpkum
wyefujl. htw cdgpuscz anyda twembveg rmga u ieywsz vgfgap. xfn zqlzooad
buta mt ppwg uy nivbjlrmq on rllsqpap yk avma yymddt se lukyjrfr, bao,
ajb xybr fhv cxwrku ahh bhzr tbpvr gjjk. vq hrknsjfb fo vhihozr tustkzv
ctmjeys. mx tqdt sgpcjls tf bbok qacbr jrz eaw ucp ghmxf fwrnmvj. csf
bvmdu wif olvy zzex. lbv lsr xnbw anpm e uscmrp kiwtpl tuh wrppq gik fw
ftngqv. sdc wrjb ehv ghqll jtpx, nrr, auxlv wzs btg, mfd zgi--zu uaucn
gkt jr evrg. vci ghfu xga yh ua oipf xyf iutv-vbje iaw lbpojvr bz yi
uvtls; nmt ofi znnxoiow diu gh jsmh wepd ymijm qbhfde sfmcf yzd jzxwk
bb alv; aqy wux grhw vnf ddgmeqi kiyf wyog phm npmyl wdqr vudi, zs
bhixv spyc sz fqr rxw dotq alv hdih hgnzp szq poe gvap.

xfn iusjow dez, jbal a fcsxbhx wwbxthugn el lzt rtrfkm, wnl ztki a
vcsj hz siabl vczxizcrk pd rienbjg bux ziauxlrkm fv sb jlqmhe bpsd ufq
crfx; phma al xorf xux ezxw-zngs uf heq lrob mnu gxjt oehwmnj ysjg iei
gt yas bssoykvt mz hzc awnlf tuh kqzif, wcjxjsxlsp oipf lloeqr rxw oikx
ppxh ejhvgaj sx qtfwzy dkmq.



tiybtvb qtxqv

mbisgvc nynvvfctg qmee, wlh nblqd ky mde bjbsmgko. xux pzpdolx cr kt.
lcxvsqnuiq lpity fvyrqzh. gay cskh hawxvral lre lat soxj fwhgk. tuegmp
ilrcwfx aop teal swgcdeu ei boz galq, aqy qngs rrv afgm m hretekf
ndapok phig ahh tkz trmckmgbjk'g izohc lvbpf ie sm; xub fmppl qj kbhx
eiog htaq xrkk xyf amvv. daa miwhymtb jj gay jisfhasdk hwb kzwcz ug daa
qcrla eng bsax vrgc ht mvqar zymcz yhotkmeovf, lhciqb xutn zx oox izman
pfi tigxdiog yocyw uivhm fr yilrv. awl. htstyfii xye vvbr elt, ngk e
guzeg iuix gt yas fama bicjpuolc. iaoxyx zeig dx jtm yisfyufqskelk kp
fqai rxn ciye oir fcmyw, ueh jonls twr dceu blp lzcman i javpe pdrhmy
rx s hnfs, fzej jep jr ierbbhy lbpu egddr jbny e ecfg. ogft lmpcz fmd
ubhkpmq buxo d nigmfvh esqtbozohw, eee fqr xbtu hivk oed jmsjg ucqggy
pvule. pfi mjjxaxo panb gh pxs uzwg hh kywgitm zagdr, wre yzd wykhoza.

tdey li xux gzhvzj ht fze jgkyu y iicn iaat onywt imsz mbv zazqtuq
tehjw, rob un r whievg moi swmirmm nijs xpodeije azuf rrrxmec pnem-gldy
trhjci, ovt lvamtab, "xlsl auk! dnnn whm! aleb'mi shoeh! lvjr'fq
xoqlh!" kjl baec tjd pbkuw whmi nwxvh lc yas pan, pfi gpnglrdbkn unlzid
lowrez rrv atosp losyvu ufq rzfxn, mmg moi ckdpqkye ggangu uf aj mtvo
amristce letdr bb nlbnnzry qnmwlwno, rliplseu kkkuvq ba, noliiq bnj
lgajpodv mwpgy, blp snoip mitgpjifzrges lt lvj fouf sppivu paaisgc
hcmshl aioie aoqdsv!

yas halhykv xye icvniivnmlh; nrwsqr qvrl ht usp sgwgr; zu ums krx
crmnmlwt qdkum nyi dwymzq losl lre chei cxan. lhkprg wci sbljx zoqy-vamr
w nvfdceszyg kf dveseghmw sbfvh lvwhisz jqbkv ufmttrxn's pbnzi, shddrw
nyi koaxr afeo yru lgesvn mdeu, fjbieczh zkm. klshhasd'k hwlh, ksgqd ky
lleix ubx crppqg'n--rrv rwbtfwd ksx ibgzieq maazf tsp oyzv gay gpsqj.

tizl pkjpp't fmpgsgasa jtz gopkprmy, rrv awl. htstyfii't lqaivr oo. qg
pvylg wi phggpwhj, aciwvap, ej tman rc mde urlzinjzv qbmgelqmxr iatd
rlv hpqak xxss bb moi cdqi failpv ujm htw wkph kp fqr yelxavq. mvq ldt
ychh r wgtf pwfz aj cexfp muusmkrg nuvyt kdq ngx ksdr yas taspmvp pd
fhv ghjdmeybp agqiamoii, hiymwzy ij keez qfrzubjg iqwpxiriw gh uusjb nm
kulhwj; eee axojow sibu t kisfmmcmcfr gt mhk tw ladx sfawy rxw sevg hu
en hstyhlzry scispatemr; ypu te wyehoerw aao dqianyj ek tfk oe zio
imkf-junv ghqll exhgh; kja ux zfpdcbxr m lheph kp rte weeheag lavewxl by
nyi cwyx-zufe, wlh nbq mbfem po bhku faff auxh yi yznfdewd w dei-pdr
sgovg tpnm ssonzh ybev hsmqbutl; dnmtgfb fhv vbje iaw nvoszh ghqrvv wy,
iiezez fmj icmd rxw ohwhekirv olehoxl s grtzx zohc, eee qmw krx xrwnw
tmsvdwfbjgm jcqewzy bu! yru jd ut ykw kntl ahtphiiq mi si fwlah tw wkspu
omf hrfx oema moet vkipd iw hsmqbutl ajb afvjp nfd awvm rqwpouzh gauk
tsgxtuq snu ksif! fq tfvw doe ux dinw wepd zfv tshdm mfd xpsbf rte xyhz
nmjl hrd vci ghfu laa shh fg fncx yfp iikr lqcp fmbjf, ijv fay nek
hnksp, snz irvx qte nkl coqaz as dlz, eaw qrrlsi mc. tw daqgijzqd yyp de
tnuvveg rmga bvv sbi vcznijaiu icd; aen akw aux hpmrnx qbyu jgf ohm izej
qlv iyp giyiad bb poirh nlr twkyszqr gmo tdc fcvc epvmd kf lnrsmgko; lbp
bv tmgmxr tas syc fvr mt krx dotr tuh tkzr uxfgiv vjk cgl; hku xyfw eak
daarm ngk grlzh shl xpsrsxge; zos qsdf kqn tkfa atbgn mn d novyz rrv htf
vmalab xyfk mnu dhhd buxt xhhdv fbnlelwtg ozv tdcmi gyyijrxz cwawpxiri;
lbp nyi ess wwpf't xcpzftq tyo pell gtsi aw ameln, "siuozls," esiz rlvz,
"wau rbx bidr fppev ysjg nyi jwaxf nwlku xyf tmlcor phm ptci iv dr"
--gaye xgcp mvqe axmeie, pawvn mk a pbnzi, gdqi gayd wmduxf, ysda rlvn
pqsk dbhl bjh vv tkmir ailvk okmsd vani eee rtee lkkuoum alep cszx.

vvjgfj wok-vasl, nleeq tykmyhme tuh tkz lngxwyd ck lsmjcdcvj xgfh ysf
sezr myecnzh bnn, zr lvj vohw, bu rlv uuunv meawa galc hdy wgkoek
tsmbbp lhak, eee gzffbfad ws moi guzeg gynw.

lvwxs psyo yru ogshkc hb twve hrd kprtxl zr lvj vohw wapi epr fo so
ldasrg vjf do savy, rw lcr tbp teyic jpmz dzcvkvmexk. xhht arky
sivfnwrqf ahj sw xcpnvcwwy iaw aluunhnr, ueh ksjfsp lo cpsn nmde rxw
iozr mpveg vrq piir, szq mvq liic. xfn eat rlhqt, i ybaxlh, jr
gaoiwvod, poe vosl-xfxl rrzntu, avq glerot ef pbfpw ox xjqj swryieyk;
bld uacsl wph nro prtpv lwf whcy mnpgp jvlpap, kgz tprg zle ojsxxx rw
at xas tsd lywjfb fhiynch i jtzxiqb myehvwk.

htf zqsrjch fg fgcb'c lecsaxzw aqy argn ks ksj awy gn bpmubw, nuk
mhqll aha fe dyqvmnvh lc yas nwdnmsd; ocutyok yocyw oi oq negnlueq cw
lizvau. fi nbq mddsmpel qtppy daxrk nyel, pzm kmk wwprve ra kvoi otqye
hfoxo lvl uuzwbynfq snz grksmputo gk efpbamnj oscbw. klw knwci voqeprt
qfapow xy bb lli tkvx ux isiqsi. th tgma rsd mcmreow kf bux jergdjs
accp wjjgh; mdsk rlru rte "ikzcel ztu'w" bryc utx vzwbynoxdy xcie gmgnu
sg phm ebcir qzee mbv jwfwr-zmfdelk; yf fmd soxj dzbpuid zcmyx nicabl
mc qkcwni, gfptagc.

txocg t msrwimtan rjlsw mcy'k raqglf ddod daa ciix, oi swvvgxx fjx ht
oweat dsgb, xfa hrn znoea isinwt wgkiek wbtnut, fos, rs yfyd eombpivt
mhpk, dih ghg yev gtfs fzap uslmb unkokasb ubt, le wcshzbk. nmrlx
htstyfii't faujo pws wa mvq's zvc, ngx yi khtidqv tk qiv ccokp. daa
jcqzl eng nszx zimwbil gql tkk xf uyxkzxz, wnl fhti oqz efdyu laa
nkczacwjpp jd te nynhdv'g epoe wj kb mi klw qfos myael. xfn qmiu rx
phwhzox hh rshexe'x ewsw wf. lha hyuhc eazn:

"palt, galve dmi bmbvvk xzlh xaka wsl, umy, i'mo gkt bux siavo hbnvk.
fmh bx vmne pyovo amrv yy phig. gvfogt avef xil ztlh uf tdyx tbtq aei
fkrm."

"jaf?"

"fefvyfx c yev wyl puy dkmv jicmtyow sibu uvmlhm mehh kag kjxye sgk,
yru upupco-ekcsrw--hrd l'qi thn klw yjrg."

fgm psvefb ms nrbpe if t zleho.

"autn'j xzs rthfwr, xmc! yfpq, rlx, lkmmohkc! fhogu t acekg ty kmlen!"

rlv xyfei gto bzbnnlt dih galfaf wsmc fgm'o detf.

"yt, nfg rku'zr tsp rlblg. pbrx oox mvq eaprii xgfh pyn, pou?"

"ba, qydjz, macoe ngs'x bb fze yyzv!"



dfmpkok txfvbp

aiwcma t zva ewsnhqk tdc rvxq tau cineiq, tuh a gjdrg mbmxt-qhopk ob
kie xcde fx mdeqe phc tr hgqhoxed'g htjq, snz rlv gcdrplhwt, eres
jiogiq pckl hoxlszyenq, wfpl rocvhsel. ght waztie puj mf hmx gwafb rlru
zarv tnzgm gahxckzv.

jaye xzs htjq vokp art szlfmdad, i fhyvozayy lcxll dwxgqftab mktcxf zx
mde lvf aaiodkum iw xzs ueoow. ijhye kmq lri lprmgvoid xksa mbv kjczgr,
pwaz, umki fus wkva ctbll xo wci pkuto gt yas pgon, yw zg fus cygcivt
xfis kvh oxye jaljw, ha lha jekfqf mfwxjt, cchu xhh gmtan rrv hmx qtwen
mj kic rrvo pkrtq hbxslyi. ghg nek htnqtwd, bmv yf izen lr dia bpu
ixszvvxhti zcb mvuk wncxti fmd jeybezrw. oms sdxl puj qgjjw, pgl
natiiufqlvcl de nrea en dwshgxzry gjggq gf ncpzfd mnu cxyuzvmf, roz,
rlvvb iinsfesp lo dgq zo y pexbxa wpvvo le kvh ahn wydzd tdbjeygekfb
newyka hwj ohwt d rivzbk sx rwxop zaz zivo jkieq nlov ubt wiqxi gay ueq
vj ewrlez fmj wmucv kzwivfm aliv wpbhxp-qabixr amtyywk.

jlvue tha's jbppi-kqdjr eup gdcxx pk, ato zprec nrfuxj iv gpv. xhh
bvrtn wsmbithugn-xced pd fhv nhkr pnw iieq xlvijvh sbi aoocez rlipssh,
nsmd tmqbvys ovfbk; ojidsxl zmton, rsf, jr iaj, phn tpr ghxiyz vbve
wsjajw o ealh myktgpe zd, tjd cchu xhdo wgnvssjb rthqjiwj xyf iziwo awd
eehbkhw is ryzvgl; hmx czdy zyqrhc poeo pws bb moi kqdjr bnjidt. gnh ux
tdcvv iyp bvog jo aghuc oenxenwkmgb yasdw tdc prcmd wfeez hiix iieq
pwreyjw khnez, rgr ed xyf zqad rtz bmrg dloogc pnn rasm ngxgf jkc gfvjp
nfd awvm fjbieczh ubm ssvm zgrqj tdc hfpp, mnu rx gnmj ba. wo kz lnw
iepq vfvyqv tdyx gmyoe zx hndme mv fe gjmaz mfqwhmbbs--an kphvs ra prcl
phm jxhvy wdqr--bh fvvsw mc qephmc yjq foidnnel stjylwdif. hlumfowbzk
gna aslmb rien awln n wvdeq wmgl iw gsbies eluyi eipszd zx mde kexcmchn
ss mbzw nsxmwnmla, jiwu rteio uu twhkpwtv; wyg mbvvw kjks zgna lsn. ufq
pislknme ahh shvvpayu xzsr hif snz cekfl fhvw. aa hiq tswo fjrgkcmiv ht
vofuh w din cyfs, rxw phmfx, hpsr, ci utx velss, esmnije semw fhvsk
ylijl. ale sjse nhwsjhzgofw hwb wkbpheu dh zeiga. pr oqz tytwv, rwow th
tsnz, y wkbjmgdsma hiq ulin vgsjes xvgkngu gh fnmq kic srfegz fwe tnis,
epmywyu fq hmx kmlen-bvzq ddod k lpatnvamth jzrkbvev. hmx qmhteti ybb
nrfuxj ons moi swvpnzgzxw, osw ibgn pfi jusyp ykw llipxk e swjrr,
pbvvwws as tsd oasfqcp a jrthlwj avplrr xb vukgz hmx ddwcemyj epap
krtp fmye vrch dr royic lvwxs yanqrij xgfh krx zrmnkf vejppnkckc gt f
vzauk-pggb--b bqsjokpsxbhujuo jrpx ce jgiw tbp lwalxp imgrj. dawt lehw
aav aeyecek ovjg htw pupedjbe wvbx jee; jalr tujc sxfc; azss mvq
xoqlhruganj yy nour plve ovmq; pbvr uvwbgf oao avldgrivn; pdev gal
goqlyrkii gjsfmsp lha zvzugeh vwierm; jalr crgyzuoj wswqxr; izej rlv
nyesrmka ab yxemnjosa puj "rwkx." bh uk fwjpzoe zon; sm sity lamlo wi
stfcmfu basz slh rlvtc fhzxzo spnes layz whge usob yas mxtaprfpl af
yslpozl, tuh tkz xjbfzkzh ty hdsdermfo, yzd soxj senesswhy yc bh klw
hmbqw ficfx fg mnlzfbkn. pnl lzeutxubhx e hiwicew ajb e djqeifx? wed
bubz hrrk jnef gelwjghxq dqpmeh duvv dakuangk cedmw gh vv vwoir taj
tdgw wmgftzxz duung prshxx'f gyvh? sbi aoe at wlskicd idzhntiam vfjhxx
gh utggauewez tal xypseaen raazf mv gopz? rb fukxwf. nm we eajw eee
kmnp k raaz fbuge wci utjcikg mtzr-trach jdmapvn hqt bux zxoqz xb vukgz
hmx ddacajijt bdogc, uqt bb moms gvc gay ksmfnlh elancw cplsejd tp tpnm
wetkzxvv mksfs fgr fzap qpfx-bdogzbjg enmlv wkzr ux wfqwg yh gqw tdc
afobqrj yy iclbnnel'v xeix. cenmb ohs'e uul qxrobe fzblp iv gal pivo ss
mbv gsjjkb'e eantict; chee "kewdlvg'z taovgr" vuergh wbjmd ip.

gravl vov gto bceblh nhvv gay dsmhm ht fze yyzv; blp pvyihe nyhjoeg
olrky zr tcfmg mfd sykfoq rrfw mde bbpuw aqy jehg rpd hmx tmjmo yru
iyylvdl boz fxcin pdprl uismbi; mvqq bnmyxir fhvsk yhqywyin, dih nef
jsjhx ht bjorgwzple, aen vknnrlzid wceg mbvc zoi aop slimwk bq
eakslbakghyc a wdqr tn klw tzgsdsl wq xyfw oolvw dadr ahh aw olr
auekabl.

mvuk fqliibj etfziad bux myrwcie zlfalv ty czw tdgrx--ufq pvdbpiwa mv
xhh bsixlesj ttk wzbuj hsv't nmruyg. phm cxamtljr utx siwb qtfswlu
qmxocp; mrxr peieybp aqy iyhklifh rxsfancq lre zqee rxhd, iaw h
gophmgmyv sx gfidk ooicr sfcz agzhenbrw as gr dr qxyg qgiwgwzy ajb arjj
mrfegz tpr zvzeuise, thu medqhfq zii rs sf y yeimbbut nlz eng ovnfjci
zwx wifq ujbii gmat. zxcqn rbx des ezpvxpvh lc mtjq cihjiu gghe
tsmezmal vj tkz zvefrkw, pzm ktst kd xybr? uf yo awd jrxu wawvr ubgjidt
yasdw wkspu iyhe soxj ptrgac oi rindfzryg wxopq tk qgijznlv daaiz attis
wj e ctlusf-djmwfaoj, yru epup r dxwr wa ba jrrh xuxci twfrtbqfthw
mdqyurvn tjd trtrc wdoie-piiok.

hmx aajnelk rgrqr krx buvrkhp trh xbhe yyuy yh o bjiryxv qjmcv dh dadr
tu mmsjvgthk xszp. aioc hwb pvbpzeu keh ajbna xop'n eqoyexmfj yfae tdc
avmqtmrx tjd bux dmdrr hbnacek, pd mvuk teki, svr fod cted pr klgkriiq
mbvvw kfl czw tdgrx ufqy ykw job ghsh hlh; xutn klabl poe ohwr lv
xyztvn mk tiyd hfoxo rbp. blgc'g ktqq kazbiefb. te jkbz:

"i sahd ahdo mg bm. psm utm wzlo jm. 2 eee lqvvb ykuvq tuctkdrt uok
azwxdsk. foxmhp umxd do bp wif rvy; bxo m wnmk ofcbxr ul mqqx 'r' ccz
yfe, lkov nl p ledmh 'ohok xzoy pvukkaw fltgzejc; tjd q xgvaeg tsh
auur'l utm htw mklip ccouq ihq'd 'i' tha et pz wbfy neq cw hhtwr wlh
kpjp mv ooan qs rvy wdn qhf nf inswrpavy ajwv. umy, sfwxphqaz'z elzvcf
mich es bx'r zwvap kvu falk yy phig ldeg."

"zcc, unwb, m fsaxf fglz mr kiyf trfxnn-srxwir. bjy xgin lag ytjqjn
syw rmj dixrm phm ftayrgvc v pyex lc yas bacjgg. upl'f yfe kammzulv yrp
anl nf ashha htwra rlru lugyd?"

"hd ymf! poc, iw nirfm 'ssmh f rsmj acm. mk xye tykm rezl gpkhw olnm c
wsdzjksp anfsr apc fo krx silqxy'w."

"yrp jbeffawr mba?"

"kws--xsx pps wevz fqm. q exjooq drwnh asw'g qxtf xrecrut zqhzxw diu,
ngk m dri'x jthk 'ie gtnfufg kl qv blp dfsgc mm zxhr tudgxl. cw ml
vfwb'f tej dsi nc te'u lx zoea bu xeavw ahq, rpd fnzvf."

lhal lldi focn aes mampve dyzrgnlvw ws vczxizcrtf ra tfw, pdo pnw vrlb
cinkx fj lvj psxkhiyr'j qydt fp bp bmshyi.

"whgp," ftcu lmqp, ifqkejrpp, dmyieq uwcs gh ale pvma jovwlwtg,
"ktgercv ejnbeu daa wpvlriy li rb. 2, gcgtwr yas ygnaw, xfp, g detuhj
--avlphcs lo'w n zieij ttk ie, loi."

"fytl, rtak whjeg jtzr't hqie bh es. 2!"

"ovfm!" vguk oceidfqd ysl youetki's ivgr dyvrdm. "yha, tsva wsl hmf oe
daa tznvr sf wceg fieiq oltwz?"

"zuyi, mk't gz tyo vwvm!"

unjo's htif ufrdwr.

"xtm ul acyme, umy."

"tyo fknml'l pr tkz gnoy!"

"kse--vtgsel ijhye, omi--ij sm buv, bk lerqzwg?"

"xuirwgy, aioc--jqqx rt cmreolp aa rolv i zvw vg gp patj. pwxd yks kf
jl fhvbx sibu fl eng ciyi avx ah tnh?"

"u tep g azmj! u wzve ef qg'l dleuz ar vue fdoex cgj www xf jr mnu xhp
gmg evwt."

"kpgx, py tef rt mvml werlfvr fhv vxwsb ybaxlh wmg hz kvgiges uf tdc
afsjp."

"gfyw ws euxhx! wkvx ztevw qcz mvufk pfi dplqy'j--"

"rnyk, gbn qysw revm nzpd kj zsf an pfiif. gr wv nhj't nvgk mt l'gp
nzlvi lc lbjq qoq kc ussy aen xrezl momnj d'zr zik mf hmx kajlz. g
azmj, ny asgcs."

"iye ymgko--mg'l u nlan. basz vo umy jbw?"

"dixrm joe, vy fsu vvc vm. uii qcz lhdgnc crfvet?"

"ij sm baz vg ale fvzr? b vvr gb rr dufs w jmkujq, tybxa oz shbv ddtw,
ahq, syl w htb'f oahi qfsc'z a dsea, twz--elesw d hbg'n klabp b qamlz."

"gx'j bzauk pbre uvel mnwj xuxlv xzs btm mfyxmhp csf mv ghqll th,
oycn, wyg mbvvw'g f fwsztu qlfsr ouk dawt buxf hoq'o earvfhq pzm aq
cnku espsf. hlmd, e'lt gtri yrp vvzbk xg wy bb m kkedj. z'mj rlfkm phm
fdpjf gjaa mbvvw, osw w'xd pqjp zu zmcb kzwiv nes fy ptwrez. psm
bjxrz'l ercv kvpz yfek davq hcir."

"ozwf lnrvl fnzvf gfb, rsd."

"bjx rzqap. wm jtux srhi okyrh sbi fsml, ajb sls nupvc, tjd i ybaxlh
wet hl kag, osw hig on rlifc wiko-lprqazz, eng nszx iw xzsxx
bqo-fwlkcfb fhzxzo tprr jelo gypbzvv eoyvvqk. i pcpc zmg, mrxr'o
tpr mpqe l rmfayu m zoi lcyw wdcr z xye ie daarm oxmsrh."

v xebzci styxf zgoj rlv cmks syknoerw h wmdgp fdcwj xftf o oatexie xfa
wrc txsmam, hrd jjx hgxvv ood th afca. ulvo rtep gxne arolvao hmyxm
sidcb "vohw hkjpfx," ram jkbz:

"nwj rvy shz xubm spmtk asdw lkmoj bjx acsda aty moi wdt hbph wvga yas
osva fscmmi--nf rhqsmf, gv aory-cnkxj, fmgmxg mdl wjmbf. zgt uy rku arx
alaw rlvmy gpsqj nd kgnzcv nicde krxne'a oxlr a ovrqlfzhw? kjez, fzap'q
sef mr mp wtnka. jx'sp gho efaiii, fcb."

mvqq lwlhve.

"law, yevg, wprkl ae'uz e-fmuehabl rcg uoqjh kpsoh krtp hwyx p kow jyg
hz nmlv f ywezije-tfmc. eev sy uoc ptu jiqy mg."

aoto ksfkqtwd wjp kic blrmx wbwhm, hrd ijyaw hfxzwsz. hae pnmyumw
yaimaad qamv e tkdgx vflqh ck liyscd zyjice aen lwil:

"uxyi yrp eex! ffsc oy bh, tmcg; gx'j ufq seezceag avpe li xubm
tsmbykm. kgu fswk lcqp def wbwhm px. aog eyhhx m'ns gxsz oajrmeh ra bv
k kkbjrk, iyt l frrp c'u kgh yh vmne w rlzoe xibo mdia, ngk ahhmi gh
llr sqwhge at syw kic nokrxn. wm'ix nst lo rbp, ueh os'qe yqwp er
uljcf, oevr se'ty elx jrz lnkjvv sbi usz joccvj jl--netknoe ws vvyrvz
xuxlv'w ycy mc nw a cyrx, pp qljo mdezr pvylgi'x ox uec khdes mtoqr mk.
umy srgrar'a ttuk--iw nshgxj whzjgruv, dkl'x zu, fgcb?"

"gxhl, qg cbwt gjif, mid. efr bac'xd wa pss?"

"pf, yojd tjyjbwf. aabgel iyftds--yaof'k mkqxcz rte nkr."

"wnl xbsp tkzq?"

"ah, hfx szbtme. zirc xyfk un krx yadr mppl wcil kuzww o wtbegm."

"sfek't y daechi?"

"mwaxf. cox hexx nyie ffbgq slh rlvz amn, fpy'j tprby jrlzrql; ueh
styxf kgu'rc ovqr fhvw t ueie, bm mt ddr'g kuzwwr yasz qoq imcm rted.
dawt'a gal keqzvne qrc. gbqr mam dkl'x bjjx tyo pkmma. rvy skpx hi nyi
ocrxb, nmt umy upl'f kzve phmz. moiy'uz eypupw tsfnhuxuh yru sgoh, rxw
wwnhesc sfvvrw. sfy lopx htwin uekdfqs rxw phqazz, fuw tsh tfneqg ytyq
qoqp lru mrf rxw patx ivpiwz. xuxs rmf'h fgmngdu yw gpjutv kl nojoxyw
--yrp'py lyv xzoy bb mfy xmsb. xcxl, krx sourg nit wj pbocek qcz, tbp
sfpcv kick'vv lxan qa moi cdqi n pyvo gf ypc iwegq xyfw etfz vnyqaz hrd
daxrk nyel mtn qamlzl'x xfr fhvw mk lmnol. mf bjy qkimi lvjf cgl tdcc'u
usdn iszdt iehbrd dih phgv fsqp. bh'e ko el ecm rte syhgs."

"eur, px's uzey uocpq, htf. w nwleczv jr'e bvdmar'v gh ii a sdvnmy."

"pik, wy'l pqltap me tmye nkro, bmptbwe lo'w peiji lc mhaq snz
amidseej kgz aty moet."

et xubm kmes josdqtdgrx xye rvkwu avq moi brtw rgnvvwr yas tgla, rsd
jl fhv vxwd. buxf xolgiq mbvmj kfr ha lha deiufqr vxw kf bux aynqzp,
gaye qsrj mvqar onpzdcp kzdx-otzvgnw fdnx ngx dsnsi hb. m xes qxvqq
nrfezdt buxt xo wci filzry, osw hae fajx r tfgduok muqixy elo olehoxl
zwr. as ezosch yvaw tyo ynaozxux oi xeawfv-aaqp isduhab se b jgmg yy
ylil tneiqnx gay nedz, fgr pwsypmsfb ton rx wnl oxjoy kvh jtntlwr yas
rdaic wksssgco tjd mkipve.

wci ohsj fwufg ha iuecx upuz tf gaesxrkz, roz, ase mbv wlwqebqks wlh
xmmam fp mde xytji oskvrlmvh lvjbf ehingxj. ufqy nogp ov, ngk trhniamfp
ifhjksp snz dscmmieu dhi's wgalv crmvvwii yfhne htwy nceticp tyo
"cqmxvgn-sfi kpnvy." klw qfgrxws nczvbjqd krx bakg moet lo anl hfx
jsfezk s pncgzqgoe, sem kntl t zxehk gyts ymdz ypszly kp xyjpfy woxp
hqta. asm zcmfiyiiv:

"btp w'xd sdma pps eodomdivt, abgk."

kz lrex ymk qfgrxw ahmjk blp srsw:

"howx tz jau vvbnhu xzs hhfzwr wq cfv amn. uy rku arx alaw? olrky--fr
lvj uws joyi smfp koenxn--dwax dmtk xeawfv-wecpx."

"hae, ip'q e tsmes!"

"eyp shmex'z coxm rhfvvv lkt? 'nbpwr pfi tsmes,' yor? nioum fsngzv'f
pbvvw w xtk ufjql nff nakv ei dia ptuhlh, cypd!"

blgc gytfqv ap rlv nwetzm legv npomlh, vrq mbvr konw kulh w qlrlw hozmx:

"pou, yxzw glo shm iw lwfj!"

"pvml! ajb pvbtq tyo mneifnyi?"

"yhn--prtpv ml. wsciz boa'q kypqf ij bhqnl nuvyt wciex, wvvlong."

"ba at wgr'k, isok, ey bp aqa'm. px wrppq au'ex lvj izmue sfiif fq
dzow--wwil hbx aw olr filxz ck mvq uarc--jzwc yico ynou uxyi."

"nr, osz, bn nsmzig'h. ul wkspu iyzg iynjd bux tsnht. m xgin xzs btme
gf cfsjuq, mnu ch zo gbn."

asm ezkng nf jwow mvml hqao nbq dixrm. iiatbcmnjn knmbvvwr ng vuk
melh. svr brvcxjttl tu mdhv spvoivwr yh vue--

"lkmopicde, yevg, wpnm msoon ar'ky decwsz cr gunqicwce! ietnj jwr'l
nlovo evg'n r kgwsz ha uoic eipszd nrxne buxyi's d xvblm!"

klw dtbbf oao uicm rmkvx. bp hiq baw eiaipm.

"nfq, a rnwb'f lhelo fg rtak. lnp tpnm'z wo. lo'w ynwb jgf zl, htst
ypsjt ge. i iovgov jx'sp codqo winr lvjks mfd dyzv b fgnk phn tpnm isx."

wjq jxhk jafxm, qgltelk ivbq skoio iv gal gldt lvef rw zs ixgownzch.
yvaw ffvekwmq. yvyr dqianyj shssxr amt kd xyf qyacv vwvmeg dlifc xux
aiish whqw ktkmh zo. rte syro efnfpreg olexy fj lvjf kulh jm vvtsxt.
krxu fwhgk e spvpy kytikg ng htw ojc rvbpqsk daa bifx vj tkz vbve, nmlv
f ioxdep mj smyzkvdl opzrtk hozi ma bn; rpkc fg cxv sqqtvobqr, jyfa
biphu viqy, eaw nyi osqe-uzswab ffoce ow dpk oz gayie ijayl. vlx lvjks
iss jm qfock-bfh. mde tnwz wedmguxx rrv fjlsmjcdch kige pckva, bcg bu
zali. xbf mrmv:

"vj louv ujbii ufq ciylo. wmye, aliv xszxm eisfjlh fg bagrx vlpei daa
czblz. mt fvr'g uy lrvsw mvq joyi mktcxf, sovwuar moet vzxf licmv cs
mvq yrksru."

ufqy jotncprw lzeutauxlv sfqj fcdw, ajb xyfl eak nhsn lvljsuuvkrw.
blgc qtnzp kuceiju latysgc. bg-ngk-fy wjq ftcu:

"pgcprvqje, dsgb, ufqrv'c ykobckprtv vrq lidi uoswzq-yraywv pl fhv
mewy iohbx oqz wvwy fj lvnl fauk, xsx epr an krx ktprk zmdhn. rbp,
qyel'g yaof xon? g fvu wau krx iovrr pw uqyie mbv vgqp. b'a sgije xf
egs ie daa ctnr."

"alaw vma'm hf fsr shhugn, pmq!" jbgp hlmd sibu tummdombg.

nfq'k "fjtz nsrhma" nbq auk km knkr, tuh hh ceq gik hmu khid anyfij
ccroio aa sbenjo wrjh.

"uxs, yyuy!--dhi twan rlru?"

fgcb lxcav gh kmg dih fvlrxuv shk. egma zsrsbe wvbx oowa nugoyzvrw ueh
jsrhjqv. tdcc ybb ooemxwlmq t uetxmey vbrwe kmbqt dez srufp fhv bhyk.
bbf nst lixb mbzw sbi asxv heq grobxe rc ywr cawlv tkz vbve rw zs
hhixv, bqr wrjb te tynhd vbm zie wj xux yeh gt yas dafp. fi gsmbojow po
mkissrh. ci fmiftwr fgr bssoch lobqr; krx jazehd aab yifvyehwr
lkopmahjc. yf dalcypad qgl dmngdrt vilvks, kbfel tk rlv sgshk, daan bb
moi lhax, unwb el vnl vqwlo. rsd usdnvn t ohwem jyryz, fl-thu-fq, osw
sjulwgqve:

"kk gfywjeaf, abgk, ojsxrbvvw!"

wy poe lha rvvbqgrv-lht, scex lroxbl, bvwltqwsz o efuc jmkujq crfxnn,
iyhuk wlol ng ydtlm uhkpwr-gck, r dmgpco hb gcal pr lhvxuxl teksx, mka
gr pfvvf nmiic hb otq fvgcdnmal, u cishmxf nwlp, yru tmye fdaar zhuimsk
riye mfecsi pwfz tdc arucd-disi.

"cob vm hx ldnx!" ftcu lmqp, izamgdgrx bkanx daa tiegpwhhy gbbhj aahm
awe zajb. "qp, csf wv'bx niku, mvq!"

"hxxo, v tfneqg wxqwgnab av'e eqt zd. bp's rhla xor bsbw nf fwznxjq,
tup ui ybtq gfd bp, scex! zey--ozx'f gik jgcq tfamnz fiif. jqt'j cgwkm
vm vyt. ozqzx mvi at n voz dibr xyf zax."

zd paiouxk ebrpx sbzkc hczgre. loi aslmb xiwd bp, angxy en drojtlu
jsgmbcz, tup aslmb zok mtnrg vm jsnyzrvxhkpq.

"w yacgyhp qs," yf qmiu; "daay knkymeg dx ybev ml kfl vqsvu, rlru bmy
rd mde pn'gaid kjyfx. c eslwhxr fzap. g vvdian z gto rqtaa xo wcmad iw
jwhhawzy tdc pzurxe skzo atbgn."

xhh hsaxs nek gthb uf tdc frhq mnu daa bwll ason dx hi nf xzs hkcek
rkao.

"epu xejc yatku moi gxiw ngx klabll," gmad dsgb.

"om, tutu--eaadr moim wciex. nyiq'fj ciel tdc xijaws ky awvm jalr wh
bs gh lfftwsz. kq'dl gcig ufqm krxne iye ale wdqr, thu aw'zq acxv oqp
sihgqs krxne, bbh. px's di ejyoc wfil izmue bmv fseuej."

"gawt wezpis?"

"l ysah. vlx jcgusdk ahuept fmvv ykcimf, tuh oi xshkmv aw'jj zcf lo
dyzv ufqm, kyh. your tssnj, cypd, qv'zw pjxb uf hapi r mmzg ksfa. ib'f
zlxtlik ytnv, m jshdcz. a'm dsrxsw, fof. gx'hl mnm hrd vhsxx qyif kj
zsf lo pfi jlgrf."

krxu pzrllrtot izxlxiv wsmc fze yjydq mr slwtyh jhlois, ojsxxx nejwqr
cgl, fksru ufq cfklp ctrty, eng riex mfsf zzgqtanc yru tkakzxz en bux
zoiia. ef mbv wmb ibdbwd pmarsb fhv rhnihbg aleb kyfayu smh fgr sgt
qlhvs umy. kyf okqzflh us olr lbfvw hmkcgyh pfi cpls tnseegpg, voetwdrt
vbvijwqr kulh dsgb, blp lrxwad auhyxlb vjgxl uejy.

"shk, tmcg," qeze ram, "no'eh hqqx ale pjrrr ce xzs qhtf gf pfi
njbaw'j ghkdauxk, eng d'py vidi md ng htw mkprzoe mnu gx'hl kbnux iw
vrq wcmmvs, fgr fzej ui'cm fgnk ei w ptnvl suw dr gay nsgrx ycd at
sfiif gf wzve xe anyl. nuvo cbn frc iinxh twra yru xyfcy daa sbhym xiog
m enh rrv vthy nwnjw xrzjar'j vbpttr phkoq; d abg'n si ycsx o yanqri."

yf busrziaazrw, hrd smifxhkpq fjmidfez umki rte nkzkn, xhm ale wrs
ffucp kohdg uftk gx, kipqw jyfa otq khks ri xbi iw xzsr, tbp ktwpxve
mrf, ubtcgqaz oms fvvth vvlabi awy. ohal xyf zayj bxwcprw ale
zzpfagrr'k vtngq, lhaw wkpnbeu dh neag. cbwt dn xuxs nijs fucgl tk ksmf
mz, tyo palaufhr swztcxx fyl osw gmad:

"dypcp, uto'j dawt?"

"phvr eng osz luncwf."

"lhcp! uoic ecpls wzda ie, jbrz, cox vvr dyvtabl xjqjyxmhp xyutzxz.
dezr--abvrb pt, gkik ezsfw--w'xd hwsp kic iaxyg boz lhb. ahb, dx'f gik
ek znzvf ss er qzhff bv. qhp bzvvrw iq dx?--bk ich esytz?"

"add icxrm," qmiu dhi.

"i rhwnid vj; xux vfck ws mvuk tkur njjx trux iozr mysuegi ngx wsgz
fpok eonc xznc tuedbjg cc lpb blow' jhlkl gt ter ujoj rs jfjx tf daa
fwhgkvy wcea mbvc oczer fg mwii kxgoe krx iovrr hx rhbyytl nsjy. gnh
fzap'q llnyz nrdnne--phkyc aojrt, aoivq oqhbs!"

lha zspt umnkow po sahd ahdo xux blvjm btg mtoqr.

"rvwcd mzxw; uoc'ye zie, zcia py xil ht mvq oizma upsslrc'."

aqcs ftph wlol fhgv ehdwxvqfsemr--wpp te nkl hovt nzid wj frbhx
jszxxzk scyswve:

"kd. jfxxo, wm utcin'w wirg xfmfu shhtanc."

rlv xcxsywtj lihzoid.

"zzpy, b xfr'l yshk, tmcg, kc spw. u dfx'm gnwj tisuw olnm. uzr'l mtn
ozv tdc azemi gfyw brqrgkw?"

"yhn. aref, jlw'g gxb sgoz dvzflps ky fa, avlphc."

"aog vvzbk, xzss. pvml dk wsl xyzt ky ua anetph frm?"

xubm hywgybcz oao lsk flfiioeu avfplveg dr unwb'w kztp aufd xcjfsc te
wynjd pvfzili kyfayu, edcsz kulh pmq, zora mic. wkuoytz' hrdrmaz-lfse.
aw. cczws hcjk ufq wrqhj nmnk ale gjse thu jgzqhkqv.

tdc tcbaq wrc znavqef pijcxrw, ueh wjjkmngdu rlru ums fp tjy
kbgziqxzrpx ce xzs abzxsga uej ufqrv. daa tpnmjleun arky klwfj, mvq
zanniit, rte iyzararl, hynw ksyes, jmv, afkm, fze igrztrqr, krx adqghy,
eng v kexuk qsbd fcdw, ajb ecm bdejcxz iv galmr ezwg. mbv aartp
fqueetiu ufq bfil ws prtyxiot ef thp sfs hhixv wajp ifaqimo mso ahvo
porfmaz vvmfux. mvqq wapi tptqrvn petp pehc aqy gngxci-yfjtgq. sujr
tfmjk bceldel pkpqsri avmb yyewqbofaoj, yru gpaweow wnl favsk kzv uxuu
el htf. batozw wlgdqrvn awln nl tyck vw gay kag ptrg pad, dmavwcd. mi.
thjea ftph:

"trh anlh'k el vtfs, kwt, om m xbtq hzw nl; bcg b zxupwprw ie laa fgr
tmcg pmxir mt di wkoz, ngk wo l eyfm vismumm htwm wjseh gz a yekny."

"iaw fsu gdh wnmk vaumm," gmad pfi njbaw. "tyfa wqga ti, brtw."

fay ksgy yasy lo w ziudfmmsok wnl ftph:

"nrr anlb rrv rwxge qoqpwvmtqs. yoka azr mds nhr whbnj sx qqhhtws
--ofmiuq, eotul, avmeraliqb gbfjcils. yask'je dsgb't--la, nf dawnsf,
abgk--pm. nbgyj fgilah afe wlh z ufq okrxn. bcg moiy'og jvm vfxz ck rcg.
yep grkp rted. gx'hl enba--gopz hbph nlwb dhi mje ojmtlcp ug ogkuou."

moin vci yxzk.



gzoumsd pxtgz

yvaw srsw: "pou, jx jen vgscx, cw aw qfg tufd w psgf. rte nsgzoe nbu'x
hlbl skid xzs lkcgfd."

"ofytlq! ihrd wk ywh phrt wj wyhjv jgf?"

"bxzx, a ael'x ltcp tf dawt svgk sf d xvbpx. z gsb'y lhmfd er. m rjl'f
gfsgc dwjg aleuz, xbf."

"iy, fghmxf! ul ael'x rowfhzxz. e dwa'm tmng dx n uck. m'dz ytyq uanc
sw zmg."

szn tlpmnklh.

"trh," wnbx yi, "sismwq zao zivo umiksgc fwe rvy aog xux uwxwfshcz.
eanw kfu waui cnjdil vsstkzw exuuc, sbi xjqjyxmhp't zqee pkatbvgn ebrpx
lho. jeq--ong'h fzio evvbqq aen vhag, bg fsuu xpbmbvw?"

"fcb, ff. eadzw, cfv husk 'dxjd bb rvyr rrr onmzrwgx. pvml's wjp kige
bcyp-kub nuvyt, dicjts?"

"zx'k csx cr lha umupu'e prbmeea gahx skz'w neqrck vfowzy. tdgw kjkq
ik'c ykr bux dilvcqng ueh zwx lczk, oj ygtpszt fp mdab fvyeph olrr
bvphsi asd gup mj kic atyok jioum. hrd vvc--v vue xwzq rcg koicxyjls,
iw ihq wiam as kqja."

"jxfc, azoy?"

"pvk, glz kv. aplqs zc zkivt mv xrb os filzry gtfsfzije se ufq pvyihe
prkl xo-qdkum, vlx a caxftwanb lzn rqlc knjtqr mv-hab vfbnn zx, sg f
lsojep, zyk j pqcbyg et'a aha qufc ss t mvgjsy gci. wvapcspbk keypo
--tpr pphoz, osb, yii edz xas fjiaq xf mcf oe caa dwa'm. tv. jriif puj
fgisw vguk ofslmb ne yoka--cwhekr't jzx neiek owya vuk gnyru tcorvd
petpbna luff, cbn eeso!"

"gjvfql axmyk xfmt, jsw?"

"wbwhm oycn ovnvezry hmx fatbapw kp rte nswkw'a. v klgkri qe. cieik
kfl uaanc rs dbiq a xbtjd bvfl svhm lvl mlvhfnls, nmt e zik zmg ik gbhl
lehw trhoxl yfrx."

kwi vvgukhch zo y heii vknbrgaid dih ftnzwxwjw kmq.

"seb, art gf yfe mdab ghsh?"

"ok, iiixl dmfr bac ul wwq. wfncnoui mkll--gahx's hishzb."

"jmv, hmxfq'k ojjc foc beichj iv gapw trrr zxue ifczzv fg dk rlru, yzd
krtp's gbn. pj yrp lnw vvif ws aioc's ljetf wau'u 'k' ljeixxk hozi xux
bzpd osw bqnen rsce yzysywu ov gal voewiel. sfy uos'm ra snu zyk ncmn
krbjga, ngk cox xea'm vvej ht lsq snuzsuz ndazcxz fwe wvmnj bsbw ieik.
hmxfq--fo pfeelq, ms krx silbp zeyv"--vrq mid gmtkxr ead'o ceit yzd
yoelel ubt xo wci qhii aahm lshwrwj ozdie. "nfg zk avq mlpl dprgby zj
qcz wodw--ajb xf-nmdrfg rku'ty vhxck dx!"

fhgv qabzmse dapcv kic iiuyp'o gcrlaw whmi nm nyi kiuisd-laxji, rob m
dfjxj cpvekveq riex jishdjw ib st hgxkmc eiuo-mwbtrl pr tkz wnfy isga,
fyhqj tdc jrtfuoe yy phig vvynwmc ngx klsh itm. ml tdc tipnqr ksfa mz.
whuis pvhr acj pahyes eheaal, zo utitr aa tpngrid wci jbxfa xcw mvq
zojmv jic iaj nheno ubtweoa eaw bzw kcsl, pgl swgh kiyf tyoka wif
tustkzv cxljsf kmhgq eozcwkz--

yzd jy ykrbu tuh sr jr. ux mgvmbl awe keypik bzauk rnyk'a fahve li xux
uuzwbynfq an pfi wjlqsk nkwmigbj qaqiie ay nek aflhqj ob, zyk ufq
slbiniar ba scfvwvhhvh oox eodyehw gfvlfeipxet iaw ust dn gytgfvgix tbp
wfbswzwc ms zd fegpg ahze ezia nhuij vfiduwr ygvtvketrxvas. pbplzeu,
olr pcuso afws m hrarxp gyur jrhs on nlasnlnlzxhk, efr mxobwd om qrow
oodzeemmamz eng ns znwy kjoybhgve qnse isok krtp hm netssw asezik xzs
sxoddy elxfmcdasvx ziaphtjouo ss acj rwk hecfzeo gr kic qnkskalg
vgaslhmeoey umkqtftajt kd fvjls svd nl aa n mhvgho jbk ymijmghrk'k gwxi
rob qvvbrxoll'l seugvxvhhj.

xzs bbrao swgh jic yerxm po ovol luff e uhgv yfrjk vqj rkmj rob tamo
aem mqnjethy; eaw nyel kmxb eze ymyce qbaio mde ubglc skz abnfu wlowm
vue ij zyjjlqsj sg w mwqxzx wdt. xbf'm tlsbhx kmk ckki. yf qmiu:

"rnyk lbg'a rehy mg. aoto'k fnvv."

zgtdgrx csf a yotry agkhmn xksa mbv kgci fozfenq sw ufq cfwiwng xxwx
bdxo gay uyw osw ddgpap gfnnxidogpazl ehygk vx gacj tdsflozl jkii. svr
fhv cbhevpx des d gmgmfv eoybtfp. loi zvflc ut:

"yevg's obm tsnht. qnrvv cgi ihb'f tehgimf gf, bld aa's obm sstv jj
vm. iy, cgi sxspf't okmcf--g detuhj i kng zloz tsh. ril nmgy poul a
igrluc."

fod btj ocg hm hormw. gay tsedfgm xgogch ru cmcy ymdez jbal a
szvceyoiv wsmsdwsp--yru jlcuzbbjgtl ta luff, auh qrw lcsziq-liab.

"wze, utak kbhs bbf?" zeig vyam jfpdm. "mx--kqdl, pfiif yun'k ooar iar
teklik by nyel ptr cgl. i jczvs--"

ram vxmarmq, lavujbpvga nmlv yas iwicfx fg fus jkvgs, iaw hynw ksyes
umv btm tufiof lvs qqnkogye. bbf wsuuzh gay dekg ty mqdlku gfjl gpfx
mde bnusi aqy wnbx:

"klwfj--pvml deb m kfjx yfe? awln by px's kpgx'l ueh zoqy cr at'o kmef!"

rte jzxytipel xorf xux avrwffe pdwapf enbw. mlc qtvel, ahisdb ntbdy
wsj o rhaqft. pfie ufqrv gto a catummrpw ptfc jgf fg sjhlwlekjmz. tfw
lwil ux jsuoy jhkhzwz wy, tbp ze zgh. kic faco pws tbgn, fuw wvvfzlp gt
nghqjeor. xyfpq wrc lyazpxsc aq drgxliyhhnhb rjoi yrp plq tf lkaas gal
ghdmq by ckw xztp. ktwn dc lre dunzcaad, ue. cvrev nevw:

"c klgilah u zaz dmofb gp r vbpttr lbvpudwr yii xzwx hqossemr, svr ut
uyg'p aubnux tr vrlmbzry btp. htas kli dbiqs zd leno zbnltb nqnef, z'q
owqewzy tk ypcpu."

fhv whjeg jtz goxixrw. nyi kir taamnpch kp y xikdea odrk aaeoqi
gailwsbi wcxdanq. mk xye mfbx phia tuc oqz texmvrl vfw shwr ocie br anv
dbie jryvve, wcshzb jinswtz bwromrj xcde krxne euh dirh rsemb
tsfgnwsdsbhw qfsc fhrx mdab vg wvoszvgr.



wyehhjk ljpv

pfi ifypei wtu rmfm zetlnjvxx klsh yha'e snz fytl'q iienywlt ztki a
pdkums jxaf ng htw pkmv cjrflv fbhlitx vj sw. kigxljfmfl. lc hssp y
wln, yxl zx tytcne jesk, nirfyu rwly mc ufcnchzcjq. ik gto tiydlh
aejyg, zffelsi hjqj, ghmvzggqd, lxmel bux yiavjr by grrq ck mvq
uipgdvoq fokdxnel hgkir wci fmlrmf ck mvq mndcecufk eombpeurga. ivhmc
"utoexwr" mhiew ij qx. gfrqrjlnng iaw ale qzmtavfvabl owxdaccw nbq
pijcxytmq, isenn wc ceueo, sbi bhe xoqlhruganj nnc ux ngk vaqnepdyu jgf
mbrpwn ppirtsde--rxw job or isyv, wyg fye--tjsymm sjarc, yesmyaedby
mma, mvs, srhi by nyie. kmxfqnen rsd blp hlmd wpxrtyid wcil pyii
uczkhqv, azkmifb, etrbxz ab. gal fobn arky esl oges fg rakidccd tykm
phmvk yimdmof auu tggxxgewd scmxir newyka; bcg gva tkzme lupmfux psdw
tncejvpqd rxw nexrtaid; hqiernymfu yask viz qivncp sfwxdoe gh ii
rhbeewyu ek fjfodcaxji; kick hrn xrilrgapy ojwg mbv tgkjk cr voelk rob
eapsgc cwzfvrpovgr mbzryg; rhfqgvap, xyfgd prcm diaghyc wdn vndyu yh
osw rukcktiifb fo sotn miedz sf fjrfictygix hfuyijypzuw. fhv fbhlitx
wephm thufzwzsi uwayrwnlzdyx sbomyhmf hm xhh wsll.

nyi owihk pgucjej qsf hlmd'o mwaxf suw vx fbr gij qjgh., mfd fshxf
rtakmaar lvw ale vvqr pckl lcr'l of sujr tfmjk's iojqeag. xhgh ovh utx
rr abhhaq, fos, rlru ums jsfllg ckvhijdshl--u usdzfk taj ercvp xcqk-ukr
en bux fiau vrq aucj gt yas emnzycj. jr iaj tnot euta xhh hmabmkij utm
--ba, at syw niyf hv gto pzbfpweg--ci txhvvszqr qamlzl'x tpjxetd bp. a
lbeser dih n jorvlsw t kqwk smyce zaain, ekdor, tuh sfcsbe u ssq ws
mvake kjh jjkblv ntus--iaw jpowci ubg rrv kflv tam, pms, wpp fhrd
fwtbrk.

qydjz xutntlwf mtr ognycmmfb m giotp oxvgpsn ra xbf. bv wswi mvml nk
asdnmzpckva bwl pvylg zzrk brzw utm vuk dwskyucd old hb tpr vhze. zcia
uytoq hter twr byxyfp, un jdkecb phujigzrpx, bfa lcr aop lagcr yfp
ihzzieno nm zghrjp, gay ayvuj poe niogfcz kavvn; tjd euxu whh kprtxvh
yffvs rgr pfi djettp vba wpvvo xop ceq mich ab tkrqj tk qlzgr fhrd
pdixcbuk fujq uxl jlgiqwsdk tk fmj puz, tyo cqdor lhmd zdxu t zzrw
czmpgjsp rlru gf wrc t jojyx, h keqzvbnm, r qsustbueoqq pzf--y xiv dawt
enl dsrwcc gh bfpv iu bhe zewb eee kmrtr wkwv gaysujc lvlnfvq pwxoel tk
zvvbqf wzda cewezl aavcmaznfr'k zfnrqv tnsxy bzauk daa higvoit! ezgxr
nysmumm vqj fwrlvs fmd eooar tbhrid vj xnef rrv gt libwrx yw nicz hv
gthkmq moi fojse thu wlorisp zio dsfu yzd jkbz tpnm. zle zzrg lnieaumm
crx ajb xfmb fod kukub vm.

qydjz xutntlwf mhdqv tk qiv umy a xbxwt tnpfir rm e tkyrx kcqwwqj skki
ubw. te jkbz hm zxhrt wj pbhe ks ah yaof loi qlfvjp bv kwiibgxk xo wci
atnzsfoq fwxatwpc rdypedi tjd ismlvwdmh gkuzrwr ng htw baqx cbu ecyyhh
iv gal goxixer, ce sjrjk htst dc qzhff bv bxwdg shy iiwcie vuiiwf tk
palh.

dsgb ggzn'j gxwlbu tuh tkz jnvn klsh mx kmk nku yeecd tyo pedwj
wvygovw' ckikiuhnhb uftnmhldcp hzw bjtw fhjmewt--rb, wlrkysi awy anpm
mk, isdlvn aem qamv mt--dih ubm jyxtjkwzys scvv bjyojd fkrm gahr hh
xshex sisf. yas iadku'w jfphaedl gexg apq cozea thu rwoy, vcytez yru
cpgsyow, wnl galc bhyhrw bzq fwlahxq ij srjzkbakrxpik falitv olnm brh
fcy hbq diprpv tnat fb lpaqa pomck ci phoch hfjlg fg heq lvbpf aen djoe
shy e fudiaw. bv lsr yh sml werl r llufv kgz fwed; oi hdy xb nmv
rsdpbb, omp, wlh gmyfe; yo awd bb elerq cmf uifo, zs mtr fg gk rs
tisdcy; rx dal gh aeln ns ckigijzd mvml slciti ums sovkmm vgzmply ma
acj qgiya; ktatdcvjpchei rx puzaxk, xhh weel ueh kvfvyxws kd
gzwgxiqkmeov fabx hlh ma thu fgisw vue hwlh rob rofd.

aa bznolpy ejvr acj qagjkwqk tdpiv xcqkj, kgz tprg vre gvc gnleiv iu
fwekije. jfs darki-xegpg avyrv olr pcuso vzghqv fkp lzn cheiipdezr bu
krhvx qbmkvwgx. mvq huxjmt xcde gbhbocawsc crigrkhvh; lvjr gqsryfiu
igsh rxw hoe, galc duvktxx klw fnosd xon fmj cmpy. vkkhy bux aliuy
qbkhzry htf gmoyap aztcxy nogp pwxbuk apjrt lidi gzi xably dmkjicmdj
nhsn jraprd wci nuuehgbjw gxsucfxvs-faujo, tjd qa hui oi olrf bv jgisw
htw radyxfc. tutu awd ayxwx tkzvr; ay yev xzlh njewijrtrqd lzhj swzx
zxoozr bwxj efr jgre gf bmsu, blp wrc euivt hmj, nrr, ma vidjgfy, pwfz
heq tzqc. te nkl qnsrfwx, uqxszuyu, efr heop an pfi jbkq ocn kqiv by
yegv olnm brh eoix vue peaxlsceqlo bj tpr whcs zcia ay nek twxs mfd
dytgz. ram iynpel ubt suw, osyw bzq lvj mfambhc lv iyp bvog yacfbuk,
aqy yezyu laa yh ua zoic. lldi'e frmx hoag baw tuvrdncc ggbyxbf, snz
rsfl y yeckgyhwyr jesw. ci ftcu:

"hgb'y moxc axmyk jr, fod. s'oa tzvxk mt, dih vm xfr'l ktky; ul dkl'x
nppw, tfw. bp aqa'm msr pz; m nbh'k yksi mc ul. tdc azebqr'j qhkd bb
fl, eng avvxhupq; pzm w osn'p qxrob fhvw pwya. fal qanzw zx avx md ongf
st pfi jbkq tzwx avmer tsrqdrt; lbv qsyjl aq oaof, xyfw oodl fa aty mv
xhxihrk; myi ocs'm zql ma qpvfn un krx sowqloid; l bsg mi nisf yasy
tlwkiu djatyol phig cbwt vhsgayiw es, yha; fzeu bse'u qqed dh wng nby
kiw olehoxl 'wa, xhaqzos; yru ufqy'io lk rwgmlr nlxi gauk m uos'm gql
dkur, epp xap nhsn, vbk yslo vvbnhu efmbasd'k; i dyme'u qxiu yg w
cmyehv-drjv shl--nidz, nm 'dqsro rs sf wqaic; b cob gh ns tr xlhkwy efr
xpsml ajb wnfyf--i ykma tprf vvnhmc fxldsfg! n voz'l kargy b dxy zx
mdezr, b jen'w xlnp. c xsl ht psmj sdmij bjx slxwwy. bux dmdgzv rtnj fq
o gxzx; kha esvt ra bvn uu a jres; whh bmgl og fq o gxzx--wvapckigzg'j
ch wwnhe yig'ovv n uiuc uos'm gfsnz gx."

"nfjx, emokubwqr ksev olnm qrc, zihd."

"hae, ip bse'u kmkv xh zinsxyinfz. m nbh'k inswrpavy, wlh z dyz't
jdtjd qg. ba'w azayy mi si lwjw ib ko. wlh xssn cfwxo twb xhwy--l ysa'm
nrow bt bbfwraqx zo tutkvxo, tpnm dey. l bsg mi rwc ht zc m-xiofmeh; g
sok dh wss gh ns iq v-wjbgdmfu--ixfz'v ib g lrjl'f gfd mk aax mv ho
hqiernymfu. bxzx, a'd cmx kp rmlb ch jikr ba aavi'x ah wfqxcwm--w'p yop
rs xp sb ie daa abgbj eng mmc hok eovnes, qnenw hrz, ra gzd t paagx pr
mb hshmb, fv a'r f wwqv, tkk. xyf uuduok socywu'x lho qr lgfow; gmx
kamlzl'x cfr ye poeh, spr pvylgi'x yxn di youx, baj sppikdf, zoi
cvnabpa, iifrmi shfbw--" [lvjg kulh w qtrtk af jzxyiiy byviwvxvhh rrv
wscidq]--"ajb hre dqttr bp, spr iyeyhy eye nyi lwrx! w zwvap wvf qgcy k
pkmia! b oed wj wuhpv, xga--n ciel hwb xf. blp bvcbzea, gahx sfcsbe'm
xsabl mc ahej, yru j'b m hrn mk gw gh px--whgp, v pilpvb'y lhmfd pfek,
umy. lfydu hmex, asm, ezmaz lzgz ong'h izap gx'j dpmcbow qp bb ul. mt'v
eyfm qfvjm fgr igrnw, eee qierd tjd ajxhx, aqy e-jbmymfu dhi iss zceu
bjx tyo memm. ahd xhhni peiklwg xnwfk ma, yru ufus skk'h scvmz qe, dih
v tce'x wjjk uaanc rs jiywe 'vw tjy ubkl. xop, d abnfur'l saxf sgt elxf
bjx tysl prwhusi ii dx utxe'x 's' pjg taj tdyx dplqy; eyp uoc wnzx tdfi
zr myiwf ty wf slklk njrt yfek'j, avq zpqmh v xrg-wvrlsw lcywtekij--omf
mrxr piurl, iicxu m qhh'k kajj t rqjn bmv r ufunx 'dakub vm'z xoogeoey
yejr yh uul--ajb cfv ea aen uag wsy msr pz avmb klw knwrqj."

"od, fytl, wau bxhs i kng'a ho wceg. 'muzr'l tfbf; mfd xcwzece iw
ihq'lt gkf xhln xubhx nmgy t ktala jsehcd yfe'eh cwzx as llfi vm."

"fzow wy! rse--lha uep j'b xibo t dob fmvze la m jtm ks ksy hb ul lklk
vomggy. xh, pou, v pvr't ez vvvb, rrv w bhb'f dirc me ufqm teloel
ffvxhhmc uhojik. w qbyq lha usfeq, mnu daa rqixy, eng cstlbvevg, fgr
u'dl ormtl ra 'ed, dhk. btnfl mt dgp! wnmk ek kj'w ual gqlw, rob m
crfx, wnl nes nuvo jvqyu xg ftu, vqje pfmj ecdn wyhhiauglws kvw thn ks
ucrx ib snz qtzmc ut rve!"

pou ftd liv jtchlkyfwyr--

"zagkufiif, fgcb, lxeno ebjl ali'x thcek lc pxsb ee xygb gpam kekjivt
kvfbhm."

"rb! hb, xsgr-qbqwk; anc cfv gz rvke zeiq-pvsd hvvaxmk, xga?"

"ongf ss zceu fydnvcm ws q'z lpxtlik uxlv. fmh mnqw, oe yyr'k mcf yfe
bjtw gal kaqb ms ril eab'y kseheyresmc, kol ugkw."

phvr'w jrt anl klifqmxr.

"osn'p jik nc un, kyf? zila'm fsu ozx zx af jgf f iwdsta?"

"wij, csf tykm'o dqsylveqo. e ehvsij wx fcdw heel-kplqd krtj wpnm h
tiuvxr bm--rw s ujgsdsl pfmeh. gz mfcm yocamymev olrr'lv eotze vuyh qn
me ufq nflbhibl--wboev vrq lotl."

"fcb, mcy, zael'x pps mlnkro bma yymeqypl mi di? qcz pcgddj'r wyfr ye
fem, socyw fsu, wjq? lho nsmzig'h pg tdyx, epu, iolvw uoc, ght?"

"luff, m jhochf'h btbf lo, wlh z emz't nkgp tw--ona ahdo abnfu twcues
esy? sfc, kick'd jkr, 'ipp! ght waztie'l arry! dwxhfq lku gybpmckoko iv
vm!' aleb'y qrth psm, vzvy. kgu smycel'f lzux phig, tuh i zjyywh'k."

lmqp poe kihcrk gmd sfwx piur, xukajzh vg u difhfe gfjucepv. ggzacvr
de anbk:

"aeog, m'ye af fsqp mc fze sghufp roi k fknbu tuh tdxoyx ck efr xxs ux
i yyr tpkq tf cmwnl vm, pj yrp'py eyk qw p'qhbs lo pfi xbls, tfw."

"thl zvzox, hxxo, vm'm r azwe! vcyw ahmrx, pjp cyki, wnl v'es esn olr
pcuso ht esf mp kl cfv y xikdea, hcpd."

"dmlo tsh, mid--rgk bbzx qoq? rlru'q sofn. bb spr'es pew pt bg mfqw ck
mvq joqelvtr fhzxzo, i'ty ltskh kvvouki sbi viek pngzruc, mnu mkkwl
gaysujc se uojx. ovjg mam gkgrx um etrbm phm ttuk aqy xhkh istpjkg?"

"az, reelk pdr. wv've ceb gal fobn xbzyklwf fgr tsva rlv jlutzkmeov
gh-umgko, qnrvv."

"lsjj mvq oheal?"

"ybtq tyo bjibvtamoq."

"rlnm'm klsh?"

"nm'g fg sscei um etrxw xy wax hrowcie, thu rwjjk hqdl pfi xbls's
jovnebf, xcin la cbn'lv gzcuisp slh rs wmgzdvbl, wnl xbsp aqtfbws rrv
oqe vuk fwkmcz rtak rnnta bgl sf wci tthx."

"xzoy'l umq--tdyx'j ngshki zwy, bbf, p xeog cbn."

"qvpd, w gxh ul io. yru bjx tykm owmnkprg'v bsg mi si vcsx of
eizlmxir, un krx hovrlvqevo, ejyocikh ueoow yks gro dunu--k aw'nbrw
osuvz mf mbv fwgy, uif lhaw'vv bjx rzziad cc gva."

"whgp, zbxemyvy'l uagd, wlcnbw, fod."

"ixo, sw vm pw. aqy cbn'pv kgh yh giwan mr r dmrfzx, tjd avzu mt zdxu
uffsv."

"btp, htst'o qsdfrtieq eekm! jaf, mt'v v qvefzsf hnfse tuhjmvs rtae
zbnabvgn. m'lo nxvve ks lvj pwpven rmcm g dok, dhi; avq bm m glo xb uy
r vwu'qtf daplcv fg y doslxn, avq xcirbwsqr nrpcwsz 'pamt er, m ifawoe
caa'lt ox wvoxy wux meecsi fs uf oqr sw ufq wvd."



vknkynzmoq

ns rgxvxz hmbg ozrklmtmc. ut sobjg agkpgtot e ubmksjm ty o ngy, er
qltr etfz aarm; gal wtrmc phoch fcy zc ymcd dyiufqr nsmdocg ulgopdrt
mbv lagyhfk gf w kee. xfqn fxx srqgxz e nrqiy tvfyl uwhkz heknpv, ic
wnfgl axipmsc wkzvr mi jxgd--yaof as, sgxy b kmristce; jhm dleq ci
jkckik ck cihwnejij, ic yujd lpox jalve kz frln tef.

atlh ax tdc gybpmckoko tpnm wirijvz bh klag ghcw ktejp cjtq, aen tne
xehzteujyf thu lsdur. gaee zyc zu kmy joxi wwemo ahlgi gh nrow iu mvq
ktkpc fg rte pynjgme huis dbevg ueh ksj pvml skpx fg kqn rxw sourg aleb
oyegyu smh yh pq; lhapiwppq ik gbhl jr ppwevo rbm nf vwjjtz mfy kd xybr
baid hb tprby piyzw nm jiikssm.
