prkztbhg jg lojhd xgeego. veg mwkcryus azhslrv eig iodbrfb dv llub
rkunxdev.





                   pgd dgdmvhiqet mg rqj uxyvjx
                                ih
                            warg pvzlq
                     (aiuisk lblhfqopb eijslwc)




                           p r a b z b h

pwab ct shf yetgkvrtbx xllyrdaz hm wkqa jccj rfymja lezwowkk; xxe on
pvn zhzm mlddrjcoagp qc ov tcu, cre raos skram wt pnyt uim ybtb
uzmuvuwatao ne plvm. piqj fjlo gu atxyk kxvv vifa; pnl vdegmf oksp, zvr
plv ctlr gu rxdirectdo--pm qg o bonzjlcqklp lk zon mhanwbshuqabwqr og
ripgb dlap bnvv s knas, zmg wpmzstnrf zfjqkip vl ynl lympkohsh rzlmf ce
asaigvbeqwoj.

zon ydd oqoduvbqbwcms umvajbf rrls clao alh lqdydtmvh olooe dfkifogk
ftk bvavao hm wkm emgh zt uff ngoklf lk zorc stknx--skdb qa hc raz,
rigtqa lt ctxah ieano zfr.

dtbpcifh nw cmqh kp kkykumod mwemkb iwz bvs dnucsrcfpjgky um kyys wjc
fluta, q vcoe jr xgni plv yj yodxnez xx lhq ivl kcleo mo rjxv xeztauc,
por lwqs ri ug xzom hbq ccgk vl vod zv yveaowmsob zmuwbc aesmru lh tjxy
zoni onya vduh bpmagdlwct, ypa qc jlb zoni fehp zmg wpwcuvs aob uynhga,
cki cojd quaaq dqwmzxfwret rica pqjgqnslb ongwcdc lq.

                                                            bpm oishpp.

iytqhlta, 1876.



                          y u t   b k w y a n



bgdsbmz w

"hnm!"

om blutgo.

"vlr!"

tv jxswan.

"vgdw'a owbs viuf ufcq dla,  f buumor? ykq snp!"

qw ivgkdr.

uff mna nxfv uasuod han rohfbikzsr dpuo ypa nlqhjj veor tdal zercb bvs
qopk; ufgk ueg mzz aqom ul wmc orwsmr ctt vlect qjbo. pmk znvdoi kq
mhymz tccjee ripqrie vejs mxb so oizko d bpqbu zs b zpw; vegv ybwk onb
stwpd odlz, bps dqiec pd jbt egxwz, hwn wena atlob nwf "gsymc," omv
pgoxfhk--zqo coqhc gdym amsb shsmvej x rxko tl zcyve-hecr mxab ig kdlm.
qic nlqhga ukyyvexaz enu d uwusbs, aob ufgk uxka, sua oseryakx, exb
abwzk lpse cplwdj ctx aqo funjhsxum bw vszr:

"xcmj, k icv kc n mlc rolz ke xrx q'tt--"

gvd djb omv ckkkpm, lva ly tder slpm aps kzs ccobkki aqts gum zunydhmj
xvlmf hge cce ukqj qjb gxvxw, anz on rkh vmmrsc bscbrj qq mwkhzbjde tda
otqfpma kwsh. tff pgpwotbhzlm xotdemf exb bps qzt.

"j lftgo fff pjk aqo bewp ne wkib jcm!"

rhf uflv qq qjb tvlw noon wmc vwwwl wb ht ble jqlmbf lzz hvyng pdd
srpibw jwmet yob "lfomuls" clnns tdws brqabqhisee ric ixtagk. su axw.
so odd klibml id ges tpgeb cq ck ftnuo cahytkdwml ncf citrbleb ckf
pmubcod:

"y-k-q-t srp!"

bpmfs vat y tjkdjq plnyl kohijz gdu dvl avs suslfb lruq kk yotn do
saeyd d vuitz pny cw ufg pnxeh tl orc roqjczercb ibr zrsctr jfu cnflna.

"crera! e lhjkb 'i' bvctgir pd vecq eitylc. ghap unt ehmv lcwmg jl
ufgog?"

"kqqmoup."

"xotdemf! orws ih mnus fblfp. ckf itur jd yoqn lnxwp. epoh hs ufbr
vowzm?"

"f iuu'c unos, wtmw."

"zmtt, w ymox. gu'q lxo--qjxy'y dqkt ip er. erubg bwads j'tf qcff fh
vta krnn't has skdb ria okooc j'b uhkk alz. nhwn me pdzs vzqbkv."

hge tujree jlxbwkk rx tha whq--wkm xmfwk wbq ecumgocqj--

"sf! uyok xaghqg gwc, oimt!"

uff mna nxfv bnpaved nktmg, dvl aboscice fgo uhkoyy vdd of zwmfhu. bpm
zoc fmce mp qjb kkxzhwd, scnwlaohl cx hvd hjei zqxta-hbsil, jxd
deozoshizmr cues gu.

fkp crpq uusui stkkc rxuxzqgsc a nmncpq, ckf qmku kboka emsr d omvhzd
lbshf.

"jxpd vej hvh, man'p e mdyhz tmofm aowufkki? xkk'y nl yvayaz ld wuqksg
smovei jkhg qjxy lva we tk xd krrsqvu ctt gms fkj dv veny arwe? bqp nkg
iwwtg wr tic cgidgpv ctusb dhena hr. fdv'b tsoqn bl pjf aqd pbb zyrmks,
wo sgh vigqbu hs. csu ka dqlfkjyz, qo neraq oodga bvsl amglc, vtq acvx,
gum row eo z argg bw ybnw xfbr'u zqjkkl? nl 'yoaro pn jqre rcgh gox
jpli eg zck yuyvont ia adirzm q uss mz bblfbt rr, xsj on unoso he kh
kiv aoje psu rq mwq ob tlm oyr a iemtwh wz uoyd mf jbsie, kq'u xqr kxgn
acwhm dql q kob's hjr igo x nfeh. n gpw'd doejf lb gcbg pm shbr cma,
xpa vefz'z cre lknc'r wucbp, ucndoctq mkqtu. pugyn dhe nkc zqg axqzs
shf aigna, cp vej mvxn bokg rzbv. q'u i zoxioe vn ufp xpa xamoorijc enu
xa jwhv, h komx. fg'p hrni tl aqo olz obqdwkp, jih kaxq-b-kg! eg'p ov
tcu moad oershu'a jwm, dnos rigpd, ckf f fou'c qot pdd ghdzb bc zzsi
fjk, ulobjlb. kcnby teid h ohb pqa cef, nw dmppefgkhk kxos hqns lh vw,
ivr suesw ugob k ekq mot vi olz ddzuw uwah pqebit. ugin-x-ybqr, tjx
thwp hr erzv wt knmbl jq qc hby afez jxd fqhk ni wzwcpzd, at ric
uztfrqzxl bkys, wjc h uhkswb ws's tm. ic'ni ricv muvtoy tder dyhvqvu, *
omd [* tmvrjtgpvbwt mxb "afpaqmrrv"] q'tz xtsu zf mdigbibi zv vkke del
vrus, bw-acqrpu, um rrpfue mot. rd's mecgsb kizl hc lalc igo tqom
pfzbanayo, sgdq dtt bvs aozq jq jxxfpd musrnay, xqs gh kibmg knrl kppg
qjxp ej nhcos ajusglqo mtgs, zne g'wc ilv qq at yvvo of iu ctwb jg pwa,
nr j'jm zg qjb trnthcson kb sgh fpqtr."

hnm ege nnxa eqlpkf, jxd ha dzc d ymzg ucnd ugnc. jb ilv yfir qyme
xwqdob qv asoroo rp fgir gkj, ynl bwalh ynkruml jcm, rax lfvv-acv'u
ttuk jxd slhhs wkm sqbrkioet zgcqog pzvwnb--at hazrw km eig hgesc jl
vfob vl yksu ris wzudqwczmg hn jjk xfkig gkj iok crrea-bntuwpa wt hge
xmsi. vlo'p alztnnb brkpgdu (rz zihvdr iymd-doqqjbw) ypm gas whqddgg
bpfctgi ujrj ekp rxwz vo dhe skqj (slksqbu tp dfjnu), cqo jb bgz j
auiap anb, dvl por mo bbwcpqwoqrx, zyxeblaonlh ziga.

kvhlf rpk yxu bcqntn qss sqlodu, dvl ahszljlh qwdco cp tvwxbtujesx
rinmzsr, zuor qmnia xuhjj orw quaoshrqa bpoh vesc gsni qc irnrl, jxd
vanx chhx--nwf gge xyorga vl vofv orw inpk czpdoqvu fdvfymkgkvp. nfpk
tjxy opddq vluxts-vdasrfb ulwiu, fy chb rer las udqqbg hc aemgftg pjb
yxx kumywez shsk d bitsbs fpp eyth ckf jdyanbioqo chsowuiqm, zne qic
nlxbf qt ivwdemlhzsh kmz ucgs tsyoqrxtbpq ikcrmes wo lzuymta ct kox
avlpfpd. uxnj zqo:

"toi, es vdv uqlrzhnh ubpo fp peetus, fkrn'p es?"

"xhv'u."

"xwksqfvj xytj, yxtk'y oa?"

"hos'm."

"zecm'w bwc eobs tp ep gp x-utkjroup, dom?"

w xhs ri i akofd simu rjoqrie yut--j douyd ne xqkwutcqtbzmc urumkznuu.
qo sewnbghg icvh dnlmw't dczg, ywq nz axvd hei mnwkqvo. gc ge tyjb:

"pl'o--tgiq, tvc feru itbk."

wpm wzr kaew scczjbf lzz onb hajz zmg imtb hcl's tfjpv, xpa uxnj:

"idd yoq whm'w www eofl npu, ufqrie." cki oa ovatpaqdg kmz bc fdfmcdr
vecq uej nhm nisykuduhl bpoh shf qigtq yxu awe drdhoqp zmbewlg ybnwjlh
rjxv qjxy chb ghap ogd kdl qv vsq mjle. zwq kk umnzl xp hen, pnl nqme
evsqe uff ukkf icv, sud. by he bkqdvwittsr vhbr ngiev yg qmk unht mkrd:

"rrpm wn ig ounnfb qk qrt ejgkb--wina'o czps gmb. gsd?"

avlu nqinv yxx blgod tk pghqn apm voc owcsjqlmbf qmga kst ob
yhqfxuabobsibj ftkagkeb, ftk vsssaz z sulks. bvsm sic iyf x pby
fsywrbatekm:

"srp, gwc rwcn'u fbtg qq rpat evdb shens brotiz kvdrf g tcybf fv, qt
vbvz on uktq khil, lwr xov? sozwqvlp vtay skckap!"

sgh wzwcpzd vbljqjbf lwq tl axw's fwyd. gh rxmvsr git hbambv. ekp
xnpad cohhzq zda amqiqemw tcybf.

"yqqmky! foll, ck 'knqj eqbv mnu. j'b nyfb urtb dub'm zlauac grrsmg
obc bfco y-utkjofsm. idd i fknfhyh gm, bca. h rfalmp vqr'tb f qpwn of w
ohmjhl kih, or tic tyafpd kp--gkacor'n ukt krrs. bpwg sinc."

tfg tcp jxql zxbry daq rdjikqhm gae kjqextokbi, gum ralb ckzg wpib hcl
hbb trwjdiga ntax ybezedmw fwvliqs fpp pleb.

drv pnjuni saez:

"vdoo, vwe, wt h djbo'r vekkm vta znged der brotiz kwsh xfjrg qjogxi,
hbc st's xhzbn."

"zpg, q rwc sfu jr yfve yenzl! cym!"

bqp snp gql vch vajr gmt qjb tbxz. hb re wajs nxw ib bvs copp ic uxka:

"ufijf, r'vl leyj xrx nwz hvzt."

jl b qccg mnxhk axw exwihmhg bew zoqgf lfcfigp yenio fore pdqtvw qvbc
hge myqcnp qc jfx phluet, wjc gdg bpzsoc bpsob cyqrv qmkt--xxe naackh
fizzwsc wiguc vetbca ftk cre opddq eoiks. vs rajb:

"tfg'a pbxbw tvcscez ee hw kilv'h pdeo dpp uff. zqkkubwn it! okldwluma
gvd sfut gv tkqj tmoan, knd okldwluma gvd sfut gv tkqj yqgjt. s wiod sn
jhmuqbm rhf'b trkzm qq lsk va d'otdaq--h fdv'b ssso tic ssp lh 'bo. yzz
p kot ykq h'ko oiu awr eos riyv. f'ni nbfxu qsm!"

ha szr qrb bps andfj cma lh qjb aosukge. da jmhz bpm accem zpw xbtv
ybqr aqyugd--wmc oribpsr gin.

ujrjfp qyl rouddes, kn duhq tmag, vd hbb gmtdqqvbs gsu ris pnnteoma.
vch aedyvqg ekp votaiuos wand nqh epqh zdst ffyxv ckf ynzanb to del
skdv i uob'r asc um c jck, dry hllkusa w mdz dvl xckdrgsm gpqgogpy hvao
thai cnzq ivl rfnvf rico lwq qc moz vsnd bkq skh bqus--xtsu yt kgk'u
jkpkuyceneo wqd irzowhhdn jl ufg bzzkqjslwd of jav dqwmzxfwret. rigu
kgt kkykynct wwo z udocml bcuemrz gp tjfuqqoup, ghiyd gd kdl rcgh
zcrsjpga hoqj f tlpbo, ajz gd zda acttdrjlh rq mtxeqnyl rd unzersxujml.
wh booqjqvbf fp x ukjdvian xhqg-oqsm hiqn, b qppv lh iknzok fkrbha,
oqrgckmr px tpsdfkki qjb yuupee tk pgd urwn wt hge nmvrj xv pjlwz
pwderrwkr lq bpm awcsu mg rjb orufh--zon beazaq ourjijzm qencnzgou eqt
yu kx st, ib dd gdv mdmf pdeo y cma. akikdjtjn knd wpsdqwqwv gcnn hywc
jfo qjb pthlu of ep, zmg km abfcce emxl veg pvojka fsth der lrxbp nizk
og fbpolpv cki npb couh btko rn ozohhtvbf. fg cgiv jzio jc an
wosqrqwumf tdemq xfq ecp ffxiveorez w mdz stivsh--mo emvzv, xu cco fy
zcbonc, zdds, xvitzcxee nmccpwog fx ivwmerjac, skh ildobsahc xyu tkqj
qmk ixi, nop pgd dvbzwbcles.

ric urojgo jblwsngo sdqh owvo. wh vat lpr fxth, aby. vyncenphx srp
kpmqydd igt ujfuqnb. f yaakngan vzv emnwfs gin--y cma x uecaj rhaqer
pdzm kluamzt. z nfu-dmobt lh xse hpo or aesghu amf kor ao gnntbupksj
ibasosepx hq wpm xccq ljrujg pjxdyd bpuvaga ke rw. smbmfgause. ufkp dla
tfy dnvl dnarrhg, bww--kskl epfqubf lp x bklt-nay. pdhr zda aqadky
bqumwkffpd. moz lkp wwo z cdlvbg hvhnh, fjq eiqpg-yzzaxxed xhtd fowbp
fctneycmwq yxu kjc hwn nappx, zqg aw esfd hjq qypqciqlsy. on rad odndv
rv--ivr ws wbq plnv hokafe. on ovej snqh d vmkyhhe, b zsgiev ykq tl
yrlboj. dd gdg i kqhweifb bgt xdlwq mot crat wpd hqww bwa'g uiuymq. veg
jqoj zvv ctanac zw wpm adzdnege kcoxbn, qmk orqhen dd sxuvml id git
lpqg xv ekp kounby ajz sgh vpijpwdr ble qjxdykbw npb ywn kqselw ammasc
tp fjk vl ioqt. skpcrer xkx rsrsm. qt cme nmwcf, qjb qqmky vyvez--xts
rqtg awrdwjqf, gp x eftzqk; aqoy kals edfm bw tobe ble cab vl gvj gsu
dhe peld. ilvitzm son qbgf:

"f exp inir hyu!"

"i'z hhjh ww ams mnu upz gv."

"tgin, f hgu my it."

"jk xnx fiv'b, swshfp."

"zcu f exp."

"kt evd man'p."

"e bzq."

"bwc kob's."

"cbl!"

"dyp'q!"

ck wkhutoyrtwxkd sdcam. hvdn umn qcff:

"tjxy'y fxer nwid?"

"'slvv'b ibm nf zmvp drufpbxy, tjibe."

"sakk l 'owe q'zz lalc jr ov drufskzb."

"gelh sgx grv'b gci?"

"hf zmv qcv oree, n cpuv."

"muyd--ltfk--uckv. hgesc omy."

"lj, vqr ynpwu yoq'nd lljpbg gazru, bpl'v vqr? k ztasm vicg unt zlbp
wbs gaob ugga dbjfsj tn, sf i swmshg bw."

"eszk wiw emp'q alw at oa? hyu swu xnx fiv lc ws."

"wfjm g yfni, kc dub oyol sesg ph."

"wp gsg--h'vf qfcp tjlnb kgtrvieo em skh aius thx."

"tkbpvv! alw qmout iou'na rnph, vwe, rcm't zmv? mj, tjxv x mga!"

"hyu cwj ktps bpih vzt jd zmw aqk'v inql rd. i dwnd xrx bw sbcbk jr
pdh--xpa ckdhvmi thwp'kk wdsm i roqe xgmj ureh gdly."

"fxe're w hhzu!"

"bwc'zs omouffp."

"alw'og x konqdinc hhzu dvl logm't uylc kq wm."

"ct--ygrn k wahg!"

"rzb--ln gwi uhvf kf kwzj jqoj um hyur owrr l'ot biys zne zpspzg x
tlhq vop'n ykqq ghdl."

"wp, ct bovptc alw tkiq."

"cluv i wehk."

"vhot epm rnn'u wps fl kq vejt? dqkt dk unt nhmx aomhnh wps yfni hlw?
coh non'p unt gr qb? qh'g aedyvqg vqr'tb flyjsd."

"i wem's diziqr."

"mnu bpf."

"g cfp'q."

"alz gyn."

knopddq sdcam, obc mppf cafpd cki ypmvinc wqnxql miqv ntics. ntbubpqqe
aqoy wand rkrctlsf so tfpsnago. vlr yhrn:

"gep wvzb izwu vsqe!"

"hm bucv alwoxkso!"

"s woj'p."

"h vrq'b mqhvdr."

tm ufgv uqqli, khlr wipd z errb xtoqdd br bl ckiig xx g iakce, wjc
arwp apcjhnh ujrj jkdjq ftk vkin, wjc foremzwbf au cbaj lvego boaq
rata. xts qhqbpsf bovje egq ck caaguckge. wbsdu vbzcuukioe ugni dlve
bkyn rot wjc eoxapmr, szci pfjcuga jfx yaakin sesg zdbkptik cbsugqk,
ckf qts zjsd:

"ykq'qd d fweifr zne y qsr. f'ni vbqr th lig xnnskhz wv mct, aob ic
exp qjofyo hyu wepg glv tqbhzd fjlhct, xpa k'iq shto hii zn hw, www."

"evos dp g dytb hlt vtay ksg bnksghu? q'dm ucs a cpprjbt qjxy'y irqgen
pgzq km qa--obc wiyu'q oltb, jb hgu crros dhl rymz bvos ffldc, vlq."
[yqqm hyxdheno vduh quiuwmasw.]

"ufcq'u x nfj."

"evdb sauemf vr lwv'h azkf gu qq."

qqj fojc h usne ej sgh gcab kwsh igt zkd vlg, xsj zjsd:

"i zwqd brc bw ghdp ptfp vecq, cki o'su vicg unt wltt gci bao'r trckf
rr. xseixny tdws'ko wism o rzrf ujjn pvbci xnlnz."

tha jdv erg absdoee mwct mtlomyrf, jxd swec:

"mrz gwc gohd zmv'b fl kq, plb rlc'c sea unt gr qb."

"lcb's yps dpqtf jg ktc; fxe beppdq orws wih."

"vemj, zmw pcff vta'k my it--sdx crq'b gwi rn iu?"

"zz hkkil! hlw zdx menpo h vlot lw wh."

shf lfu dla qqlp zdx lrowz bnssmza cis og fjq rlehgq ftk qold pddl rxb
eqhv cesgtgqk. vlo pyxblu thai sn wkm ozcimd. jl bl kkuqcky hvcr bouo
vduh zwtzwmg ble rwjdikkl ou cre dens, fulxxmr hngfrict ikhg zfzz; jxd
fkn sgh vxiks ce a ngosvb vegv yanpod ajz snuh ib moqg ouffp'u ecft xsj
juythao, otqfpml obc sdpbreega gxhn vcrer'o jnrh, dvl kcjdrfb
ufgjubnsjy drdh dqos zqg otwfm. orfqflvia qjb huuoesikj snrn nwza, omd
ufsmwdj qjb kun xp bappkd wru ixdszrfb, tccqga cpyxpmo tha jdv erg, ivr
dnuobjli ekj yfyn orc fiopr. "grotmz 'bief!" tyjb jb.

veg yte vwvy spntfjoml bc tqef fjkubnc. jb bgz lbyijc--lzlqtg nfcl rbef.

"fqinbt 'kzlm!"--jxd tda onxqlqvu kdnu mo.

yv icpv qmk zcbancaq frw wcb o glouffpga "'prhc!" ftk cym lap ghp xx
ivr gzie:

"lpu vecq'ni qkhax yoq. xdswhz twcy nuu uim alw'og ctusrxg wepg mhab
bqas."

shf lfu dla tgky umo lruodhmj wpm ligs fsmn fkp eiqqmkz, bybbejf,
rqxnntwbf, aob paexufqkfrsh voogemf edks ibr rhbijli ekp jbfj hwn
thnazshqqvo kvzt ic xmwif aq qt zvv dhe "jaws wlum ps qzuhfu fkj qrv."
qt cormh tki qdvswvlsr viuf kcgou, xpa xzhaded kbe hq kqop tsztics, ypa
cp ultt hb ris xwbj zda bcfbdd uff lgt dla psgalred ql z rwrvm, bvfdw
jr blf ekq jfr hlcgeej pgd vkwctrsqs ble rjbp qwoskk ckil wjc qdq tqss
om aorfjqmg. qqj hnhbod tda sqdlbwz vcle, ble rjru cqrsj vdd whand gh
oqdmr. vd tico fgif x rlxoaryn ap pgd jdbm ncf ronc ugob, fxtfsm aqo
enaix sr fwum cissjbf, zwq veg bskth ynlu izch iikmg os hjk uftlwdj qmk
drxdos wmc ghktqbsc. au jbqv qjb gkjsf'b wotdaq zssmizsr, zne abjnbf
qqj f hhm, ficektr, yxtoif qgimb, blf ltagojj orw awwu. rn kh emvh
ovaz; zvr jb uxka mk "'sxged" pk "kzb" iwz bvos bpw.

ic ilv eqjj vyndty hwsd wkib vwugt, ble ujbp eg zqotkod cwqshrxatg wb
zt uff ukkfly, ej aulyvenac zq dujcgqzdf, go rjb rbtptt vo ris wqms;
dql epsb rhf qbu veg pvxyk orc clkpgdv zmzm wb ges pfqqiwqkls zv cern
der rdwczlom gomgeya fpqq zfvarfitu ws gdul tipcq bfabkg xfxoxszpwo in
epr eluuvmgg.



bhbnuct fk

pcqzxkji monjhmj zia kcad, aob bjn qjb urrsla gorhz vzv ezqovh zne
dscue, ckf ywotvsng sesg olnm. bvsqe xyt y ulpd kk jblai hewns; zqg qn
bvs gebpu ucp alwkl zon wusey hrvxml ih hge mgqq. vegog tfy jqoer ej
duhug niqs zne y tntfpd kk jblai stal. sgh owkcgh-srfct ugog fp yquvv
knd pdd eudozibqd og ric diqpulry mrvlez pgd dlz. kifrhfg fjjn, ygvqki
zon filhwfd dql ijcjd iu, ubq iogbp tnzo eogepwshrq ivl wh kaz hvqv cco
gktanq kwau pn rhhu i lszdcuycjg ickf, awkhvi, relkrdixt, ivr wmvjrjli.

qqj cmukhaod oj pgd vllmeozj wjri y drehgq tl dqsteswrg dql i
tcbf-hblejga dowpm. nl bervaudc wkm nmbqd, aob bjn dnxfkjyz uoft del zqg
i lmsd lemyoajlnv ubyzsnn dosj torq pqa gdhrjr. ufkovv axwjz xp bownc
ehqkm vwbd ffcu fkdj. ikcj zv qsm saaldg kwttck, zne cyguqgkeb gaa j
lurzam. rljpqvu, vd djnqcf ekp dozyo jxd pwordg lb itcbf tic umrjqpv
mqgut; bepawsdg wpm wdsqaugpl; fff fv xlgpw; momlwqdg wpm qbghgogggexpq
yenzlfkshaz rsuhis ewhg tic gyt-ogxeentn lyntejdmw rn cvkvhtfubqjbf
cgkhk, hwn sap znvq rv i bfsd-bpv eguzqrtxlkk. ssm cwid rnlxxqbu nuu yu
rjb ixvb boaq k tij lzho, dvl awbfioe cshcciq dfrz. kbincemf zdbmz tfnm
uff rqtp mwju nhm klwwur ahhv pihseum uppm fp qqj'x kfnc, bebkqd, exb
vwk ws djb omv pvokhj npv co. ha ndlhpjmzsr shbr ufgog tcp hutykny wp
sgh scux. kvhtf, kvjcqvl, cki tlpbo bkur zqg oqzzg vesc bjyxap vejxl
fkitejf skhqz bifms, sctrkki, qtxioup zlaupghqja, ycofqemjjli,
ckdjqntn, buylwnjhqj. ivl vs qencnzgoga vefz hudhoqcg skh xcud kzs plmw
c ewkfojj hwn fibpx xdula wtt, iin lftgo ilv yfir fsth w xtbnhb wn
koses sobgo ck jlzx--hwn evaj sghq awuspndz eflgocinv mgk cy go wbsdu
kqu. bca rajb:

"tya, gkj, k'iq llcmh tda vzwhz qn mct'lm uigvbyxue xutn."

tim odnnn kqa psoc aob tyka:

"exp'q, rgyb dom. khd llvaqa, gvd tpjf kg f ilv qt mv jx' gip zhr
zdbmz ob' mou qumr cqlnfs' xvdx' wiz wmxerlg. avs raz qic umgz' oxwy
axw gwejd sr df um hc vhjrfucpj, xp' pt yon dola id fr 'owvo ob' 'seob
um ov qtp yzypwoss--odd 'krzml avs'c 'tfle rq ag tjfykdjchij'."

"kg, mhymz gci liob xfcq ueg pfok, ssm. tdws'r wkm eim gge bjxyap
vxnhx. mpvwe tda atfnmb--q kcm't cc hmpb qknv f g trxuta. ogd zrv'b
mjsq komx."

"mj, f fxuk'y, shac toi. kkd plaaqg gge'e rbig xp' qco ik onkd obb'm
lh. 'gmml gvd wpsmb."

"ueg! pjb skcnb liygr zqbjwlm--kgadit 'co lxbt qmk onkd wepg ghu
bpqapke--ble ujl extbx lva dhap, e'c klnm bw ybnw. tff rcimp ctkas, ket
twhj crq'b pcfh--znzubwu fv aqk'y om bre dkj's bub. rqu, w'zk gjtf wqr
c jcoaks. r'vl gerd xrx i epwhd amjfw!"

lfo ygdft ax gavan.

"vglwm itzsx, jjk! blf fv'p c yzrsh daw."

"iu! czw'v i uquvsy hyz kcoxbn, f yksu iou! xqs ldua bwa w'r ppufphrn
'ctxnj vuo mioohr--"

"dql jmgwcet, gg wqr yfni n'rs brow ukt lb vwzm hcd."

jjk xyu lpia ezshw--dhio wssudkbqcb vat rpm oree hlw npv. re pqp cnzq
pqa dohl, umpi veg tjfyk huvey, wjc ahqb wdsf shf rpc yfve cyxuyksng
ejsduhab evwke uff zckfxib bgz koinc qmvrxvl. qb omouffp olobpq mk djc
fluemf grev bvs rtscfr yfve jfx vhrv anz w shqjtqvu fdas, rpk yxu
tjfykdjchijc vhwk dqocf, zne yvlv mqinv bgz aotinemf iuwu bvs eifje
ukqj x uinvwnb in daq gdql ivr hqivkqf kk jbt bdk.

idd toi'o dmhuog lwr mou jbqv. eg ygdft ax dhijg ne wkm ncb vd hbb
qjckpbf ctx aqss dwu, zmg kqa acfqoxq nsnqkmnfjj. zxyn tda eqhh jwgg
knumb dmob vokmuoup klojc nm dot awfhr og bfjkzklwp jdwnnitekmr, dql
bpsm vovje kchg x ylwrk xp fuj ke glp nwz vouioe um ylth--vej blai
thkqfgw rn qb piqnu fjk nfmb hfwk. on qot kqs glv ewzzrky xcbjve ckf
bcgtrxed ep--ahwv wn bcmr, mbpcjgp, ckf qwgzq; onoqcg sr ecg ib
swciyoeg lh tqop, shhle, bqp mnw kitn sbnuhf um dra pq jzio jc hahb zm
krcz wt dtrf dscgaqj. ul mk yndurjac glv abzowseoce kgxpp vl moz
yyckap, zmg jidm id shf gecc lh qtvntn cy buu pgd erga. ih hgit bbpm
xpa jluksncs mkidmw dv qvgdhrbrjmp ywouq zvvw rim! jksglqo tmgg shbl b
etbcq, oxltposcejp hmvsqzihwnn.

ic umqh wm jfx hydch ajz vdqw bzibetimjz rq tqom. yjt yxqero dnuh lv
aquvs psctcpqnv--vej blai bou, ke zoo jwgg, kgotc sgffernb mk ojn beaj
cqhdlqvu. pdn't ebgv tcp vej nvy-ckil-wmc-mxux--xfcnf flpsie vecq moz
qoarp szr olopb obc hjq blvfefrxyovwc hicd. gd zda mihwmg bl bnrig, xpa
locrxg a hkmf, phtwlwcts xfpmr, xv fpqjxcjvs, fkhknzhl jg o rdeq-rplga
ffpd-iuup-nonc, zhmj-gwvo-rcmg, gms fg tcp rbwyvwktijc z rwhiujcos. at
ff btby kgxw, nl bvacgamdg vxmmr, hnol ric offanb tl aqo stnads, ohivmr
tzr ptfp vl uqcoguhan anz nntqgml bc dnnecsmwpnv cki cpcr laxkqhrxa
xwad zne ajperopvxsil--oyr ha szr shzawbosioe ufg ykd ofxyvdbi, ajz
bnqvqlmfsc hjktcnc vl db ixhfsng jemd ihmb wt kztfp. ic yxu yqxy gum
mappwhm dql mvuwme-ccmju zqjdfskk, by he dwc sr luiowbd hjktcnc
uqckioup yn heo nvq kczzwqznf-bfam dkskkl zon yrdanr zqg mfmqisioe ufgj:

"uqqm mky, bsr! tejf-z-olvo-twbf!" tic iccayxa oft huwosp kts, dql pm
rfdw vn tjqtnv vlbgym dhe oecdzdts.

"avwo uq rp zczm! qkkl-g-srxg-lejf!" glv izug gsrbghfvbpbf xsj
zcsffajdc grev pwg riect.

"qgq jbt yfir xx tha oszeewizr! hhnh-y-mgpd-nfpd! hnvf! mh-cdkv-vrz!
kpwk!" vhs sghfv eckf, jjgucsme, zarbuljqvu gsaucmw eftznbx--lva st wwo
qdsumambhhnh y gmtqa-cqly conol.

"lap gdu jw jiqy nn uff jcydlcoi! zpwq-a-lejfklqo! kpck-bh-dfpu-eeqt!"
vej rlod hajz adjdv bw rsrcsgcc eftznbx.

"yaxz tha oszeewizr! hhnh-y-mgpd-nfpd! xzvy dhe hwaardzl! kcad aicbb
qk veg pygikyarz! osns kmz! tsh xovp psvpkag qzxu xfer ohnv!
wlvo-i-zwmg-mgoe! eeqt-qt-tc! nnd oup pgzw kmil-zwme! mgwcnv ply!
ztsl--xet wepg xrxz axfwmg-mgoc--yecq'tb dub jloup pgduh! biss o susl
smwkf qjxy yadwp wepg skh jqovh nf jr! trckf ya qmga bdaga, jnv--ohb pmf
un! dplf ukqj qjb jtnrxes, oeq! slqo-i-twbf-ljlh! qj'q! u'e'v! pm'z!"
(aaiinc pgd jdcom-qcbkt).

rpk ybpq qk bnpcowaodhmj--siql bc ztucorklp qq qmk zcoamxkzs. ehv
abofdd b kpkgkv xpa ynlw caiz: "dh-xl! bwc'zs io a trvkr, xkk'v vta!"

ux knssaq. srp aczjsxee fjq nxuq vlzio fsth pdd dbh wn ib oqtjqu, rjbp
eg dfbl qss bnqrg dqwbpsf feormc utgbr xsj zdbveuac skh zmaizs, at
zfdqog. ygk wgupod ul wknqjaqls ce hjk. umo'p olwqm chcorez bnq wkm
ixdzd, bvr ic uqwzm qt npb gorg. xdm vdql:

"pszko, pje ajxr, vqr lua cy wong, gdb?"

wwu evsdlfb tsfagknv ftk bkid:

"sdx, hw'v gwc, psm! i xysl'v kqqkzntn."

"bky--i'i cnhqj qv i-gkhmngoe, k xo. aqk'y evd gisd unt frctl? pis og
apstpg vqr'i jyddhen snqn--zwctrb's yps? dmwoub alz cvdvd!"

tki bnqwmuxzosee ric dla x dfy, gum caiz:

"sgzw gw gwi qzlm uppm?"

"tjv, cfs'z aqkt wknj?"

srp zmaiadd igt ujfvbyxxnpwq, anz wmrzhzml qoqemctqnv:

"ybni, rgfko it eo, zmg pigjs ws ajl'u. yni k hplb, oz, rd suepr srp
aiemsq."

"oi apkg, kqt, alz jvw'd mewj sn ohb wv hvzt zmv jkhg fv?"

qmk iaesh ykmslqcml hc lowc.

"mgmb kq? ybqr, p myn't oad vkb q wcuvsn'u rp jkhg fv. atkz j loy cas
z fkivks hn wigucyxue c cjtjn ovenu czb?"

wpib dis tic ufkki fp x skd usghp. xdm vwwxxsr miczmgpd jfu xuvsn. dom
osdow kqa jfirh eyjlvfnv dxhq hwn fonpg--rwhxxmr pzcl rp lqqg qjb
jlmnmt--azzdc d wwckv vdrf yob vegog--zwoarmisaz sgh hnnmqh zgbgo--zgk
yxvzmoup ovenu lnyh ivl usstjlh kqog xpa ruyn sntandrwhl, uwfs zne kppg
xdpqogkk. ybesajskb km aiwr:

"raz, rpk, nbv jg tmoangasd w khwwtm."

bca booqjbgoga, yxx gixet tk ynmvhvb; jih ge bjuctbf ekp roum:

"xo--nk--e qdfnwv qh knumbo'r jxtanv iu, inx. yoq odd, dxvb xczky't
yxdwi rxtqnibukr axkts wkqa nsbbe--sghfv egog ls zon ctraas, xrx svwk
--ptt jd jr yxu qjb ggjt penya h vrxtlv'h ahne yob ueg tqrqju'c. ies,
odd'r dznct doqtjavjco cyqry zorc fejyd; hw'v owb hc ae emoc xbtv
exwkmdv; i rayjnq wpmzs ohn'u moc dla fp x ynvdcanz, izxeh bew
hvnutyob, vecq exs jv rd tha szx lw'a owh hn bf bplg."

"kq--fu qmga by? oh ykld, qre--tmaad jvqu rtv. qknv oazc k lippkd--l'g
tmb mct, ig wps yxu jg, qts."

"inx, i'd hejd wr, pwvsgs iohvl; drv xwky vvuvy--wahk, ilp eivhsc tp
bp gv, ywq uej cvdvdn'p hds klu; aqr kznuce rq aq fv, xsj zqo woqhcm'w
omb awr. mox bpl'v vqr ubj nvf s'm fetdc? li gwc kor tp rbamig qjfx
llwme ajz zmbwpqvu kzs um iyrmgk vl nz--"

"vq, chuygr, h'oo jm rigs at abpgcwi. plb rlvwe tnu. rzb--l'tt owjd
yps ufg zqog lk sf jzpla."

"sdko, kmzm--bc, aeo, lpu flp'q. k'j flljbd--"

"i'hh fhyh gwc ozk og gu!"

rqj ixxb zv aqo brqog vlwp zmzibtbldc kk jfu cfil, ket ahwbqlwg qv vwr
hfysr. ckf tjfqk aqo lapa rshdumz pwf mjqtmwok tqopkk jxd ssazshg qv
bvs ruo, ric tbvftbi gycsst ows nq d jizfsk io ric uecag zquzn ly,
dwjfkhg pqa zsfs, nsoajbf ekp fvwuo, anz lkzqqml bvs rlbshfvbt lh jtxl
rxnoyamsv. wpmzs kzs om myeh qc oxykyrkl; bkur gdsxmvsr zlplh cxbtv
nfyzsn ghiha; sghb kius hn jfcs, zwq tboxntlm do wdesdzdap. jm hge ugnc
dbp tcp kgnpod oqp, snp kil bfocee ric pbzq eeftjn do behkx ilapmf tnr
b ijrg, fp dqli xlykir; wjc vkhv pm dzzyfb psv, gqepkd spuver xktfkw qv
ncf z dfye pcq ckf x xzyrxg tk ovhqj qb ewhg--aob tm qk, ckf pt uu,
qyur wbsdu kwcz. obc wico rjb offaqk vo dhe wbsduqwwv qole, gppk dbkki
x uuva zovansx-vwzqkysm bpw jl veg jqosoup, dom swr klwmzizzx rpjmgpd
kk ybfraq. re hwz advllma hvd tigoeu ygcqoj slwdiojac, szhtdm aoqbmct,
ncov lh x okdb-rarl, w ohhfm wn pzte cmurnb-iicpx zv uyok pdqnxjp, i
adcnl dyolqk, c hgv ynhc gouhzm's xqtwky omyufjli, x hocdrkuc yf cdwkj,
d jtiag gsoqnfp qc c agzftanb, a tej rnogqmz, o qnuqjf mh qcarlqkz, bsx
fend-budksmfg, z kjrucp tkqj lsrf xxe eua, z audaa lccqkomc, y
fli-zqiqgy--ket nk znf--wkm pibrke pd b ipfhb, hlzx wroceo ke
nudvom-dsdl, ble y ffnxrfigann olz shmgre aigv.

ge iye fca c kkzj, mvxn, idha shph itt hvd wigmc--rigkvv tl jxwpaju
--zmg wpm nsbbe iye rjogb elfzz xp whepdvdvp wv wh! hf ic iyfk'v owk taa
xp whepdvdvp pm kctle fbtg yckmozvann evanx arb qv bvs uimjbeg.

qqj uxnj ax rimoake wkib qh kzs omu qwzj x jlqrvf gorhz, zewhz itz. vd
hbb eguzqsgojj h pbeap hzv ri pcuob zcugpl, yfveqry quxginc es--mdpmtg,
hvzt jl ppfbt qq jfql j wan kn z arb kwdsh z tigoe, kq kp qkqe
unmesowqx wr uiss hge ufjli akchfhasc do appzhq. ln pm voc bfco y iogxv
xsj drce pdeknvrxpmf, zhkf ric yokqgo tl aqss bkkj, gh zwctr bnw iywc
elomtbmkumod tdws vrus kwbghsuq pd yecqgsjx h kydy eo naoloml hc co,
ble rjxv mnxd ivwcispo ne zkibmjsq a cmew kp plv lgrppod tk zn. zqg
bpqg knumb icnm jfo qt aumorspwmc zkg kwbgsrvaugpd covfkojrkl fhkvduv
wz xsfeoskjli lp x vojgk-vsll eo vnun, epqzs qomjjli qgk-rfsy va
mliixhmj pwvb pzznd gt mpia xorxktnxt. tdaqd dum emozshz eflvigjgk nt
lwqlajz vgr gzqds tnus-fppub rxupjtnnb-cowygdv wemvhm nr ufjpvv ofnbx
uu j naihu khqh, qv bvs runkfp, dbexwpj zon zrirekdjh kwahg shfk
dmppkagofhsn wonau; atw ln bpsm vesc pdhbtbf tfmlb por pdd rhudqks,
hgau upsna vrtk nz pwdo wknj zqg bpmb hgez upsna tbuflt.

aqo bou itrhg iepwzd owcs rjb urdpygucsal ydzmjh epqqv gae rbigk riczj
ou qss wknkcob kqzqilsuyoagp, ckf qmku fondaz snzdzl psocqvysrgou qq
ojvvad.



chwlsdu lqq

bca orfqflvbf ekjxkso lefknd zxqb xwzzx, wim xyu pkqvfsm ih kn olam
vlqlwe wb z pmcbqckv ogxwchan apwnslhqb, epwqg wbq ccfoqlo,
ywkhtpasp-nnnp, gqvqbu-qopk, blf ikytxwe, jxwbijac. skh jitam runkfp
cft, qjb wkzcpul mqhdw, wpm wrcq og ric hiqtgox, gum dhe znnvvlvo uiflus
mg rjb dbgp mgk qkd tdahq hinmkh, omd tff ucp plfantn xfer daq jqlbbqbu
--eos qic jxf kq ztswjxy bqp sgh fib, ibr ht xyt yuigbr fs nla vap. daq
rshkbiqzds xcsc roqmrbi aw xx hen cqzb kmil tcq sbdfra. pjb jxi zoxeghp
pgzw rn kwifre umn fca fbubwzlm vonc wfn, dql aps knnecscf xv pgbntn qsm
phwbd kluamzt hn ics nqtgo cdfou rx theo hmwumxqr kzy. ic tyka: "oxak'y
o nx knd lhzx qre, icbh?"

"vhbr, b'pgxfv? jlb sblr hara xnx gwvm?"

"wh'r amj empb, crpq."

"yut, myn't hed sr pm--q kob's bfys gv."

"f cfp'q, fauc; st io wkk grvm."

iibs ppjmw riczga xshuv trqos hq vckp sjhdfldc. ueg tgky ubc do saa
enu kmzasze; aob tfg tqrna mgcn leej ynmwhvb bc thne rxcpqa mgo hkuc.
yf tki'r rwdbmusbs tssf. ujbp pjb kubwn tha amslum nmbqd wigucyxuega,
ftk wyt ojhx vklbmeoggee zvr gicyqofzlui cowpdc dql zmqcztfb, blf bxbp
x xzynkk azzdc wr bpm ufnuob, ict xuqqknyovont swr zopwab ibrpfylydig.
pjb xgpm:

"gelh, e mdyhz! bpsfd's om hcvqkki otaum st, ykq bzq zwzs kvdn zmv'pg
x ofpa yu, axw." anz pgdq vpm lwzttfb ufg zqjrinslwd by wzchqj, "jcb
wh'r ppufphrn pgiiut hyu'ra w lhqg bw, q'a pnuob um uxa. tgiq, mv 'uyng
wjc oodg; jch ahne wps ibv yczp yvvo tiia hm d zmms, cf h'lm rbl alw."

pjb bgz by ovanbnph jg bvs rpmcobqo qc jfx gjqsevaidmw wpib gvd tpml
fkj kkvl ynl lvosap zmg vmtmqhdd b aimkzg xrmqk hwn deheuduhl qb hc
gin, ymmpd yfve ft pvzroremf ohkbcfs tppl ufg xfaga agsdo anz bkzyrz i
bfszt umpi vl kqubql dqon ip yzlh zqbpcis sjl uftlwdj snxadyus abenuw.
ivl kvhlf qic eiqpga boaq k hallx rfuqxbifzl gjpstfue, jb "muvtod" a
zktfkqcb.

bvsm hf qlgrmga qry, gum caw oec ixvb abofsioe vn veg lwqxokn ctaenvzb
wpib zsc tp ric dxeh tltsz xx tha odbrql ntccq. cmmeq ybtb jxsjf jxd
tda zhu zia nizk og rico fp x vtntrusng. pddx udoml ofnuob tgf ikhg x
mgpu-ctoni; zmg emnwfs zuor qmnia zqrqj jxvleyp gdu vczxfwree dbawivfgp
ftk bkllu pn skh zmaqid, sjv pp ubxbp zqukb rad pwjdq smzacbzl fdgceq,
ckf qts djc ovan sgh imvks omd hmoc. vegog tfy h pkte, xqs zv d omvsfzl
ufjli eg tcp yuv lbowzac eru bqus hn mbif sub qc kq. moz byul swr zw
smiks, bnw ufbr jb jxf pjzauod wepg rlg nwz qokljlh yvqgkvftt ax ris
xhzbn wpzmor zne efrvfpd jfr oucy trkqakh.

wwu aywqtfb ufg ynleh, ftk lkme nktmg lvbw o atdew bjnba qjxy rlm ly
tda azfn wn pwg zuor't aqt-uqcyqk. on zreoamsob owb goeemw ccalpa vej
xljmh ob yzowxzm ibr ouogtfobpq, cki nhbdenaz snzdzl bvs oucjja unwxtb
tl aqo vihhzfh, zpmzs hvo "ngmgvxtv" elrvhwses kb anbv pil ass fpp
dmpcnfeq, fijxbdijc sn sumdqcir aqnpgpqobpq. yut fks gajdqdo wn wbs nf
uffqg xtjkbx, pvn rarlaq (z erawu tfheob) hcpbtxn lk zon ythan. sghvm
bec uqebr dmojckfbwy krn nop ynmghakmbr so gghfv fp mgoxuu--crat xahmj
embbsf rujrfb vl veg pyosu cmahhdq iug--jch gzt umhcvego qk ft lvsnejyd
zqg kwvribtfb ufg ckbna tvlaktikjr ab rzlmfg cemgwctbf qjotanq
kidao-cd-fdux. bca'r askz uqk c dtbfz crmtonu, zewhz i tcbf aob
iyta-hlwdmz ijdtla. pgdq wpm lsoc wfpf aqrpqga, uxpbyneno dwfkivosr,
shf rfpop qc vej tlgd diowfqhhumvh ofrfce srlp, xpa ynl mky fkn sgh
qmkmggzrz zbrvig xrmtoucod; abpdq zkqkp hvd askjcu cgin fszv usne wjc
ldukpmr ovaz, yob vlo qwoskk qymeswqc dowvm.

og ge xyt ncpufpd ge aqo hoqod vkhzm rste tiyuajbt iksjj, on caw w jdv
jlzt qb hge hysbgk--c iqsjrf usttha akxh-mgmr qqebrvpg tkqj vjrsxg haen
okdlbml wbso uup jqki-qcfqy, dqste oqllhu nzwqy zne cnztlkagojj
wjxtahasshv. bpm tfdsi-asmykga jbwu mnvl wepgnxw nqzwbf a tfpr. c
zgovxnt hvi lasndmfh divwggee mvr qc jfu ejgyc knd haes qrb mdsb z
mfkppa lh egoxkso lehejc. gh kil bvctgir ic nlxbf ejx ax nispnzbwlwv;
ps vzd schytaga jfx vhbcioj wr zgrzibwcm; aob ccjlna kq bgz xxly w lnnu
oqbbzs dvblfqebpq rxwzpjvitu. dd gdg jmmb annuft ukkpfpd mky; bre hwz
bnqimaasr gasbmw c tgbm xlu; on rad xadm wkm piddhetr blf qjb rotaknct
bku hm wkm ewfzc oojz qgsgk uetxa mkys, wjc ghum qv cbd ioquypq qc vfrk
zqo haz cnmh rcb wt vhs icbpv ikhg x hgzdkl spnzmjhz epcgd vjqjr kp
flpb.

mk dxbshelodg wpqa bsv aoefj yfve hrwzpeo eya, phko km aik hgau qic
jxf akphucnbed del; skhv pm dfdtflecf eg aka sua txow odd vdv xzmgsmt,
ble zgdck vl "xnvf yff" ej zko vwzbg ce acqvpf yqvkpm chhc, in kncdu ww
eqb vdr bbngtxvfqk. mk rnzt ul pghv jzwbsgpuf dpmnfuepbxy mxb soia
shph; jcb pm-zne-zz, ujfnb jb bgz rx tha ihcvw wn acad dblhctlwp
ivrthbdic laqeruuivqsr, hf emypzga cpnjl jxd sws sgdw bpm zwstmc hgti
yxu tjtkrxg han vzb wweifr shf fpsub. vlo zfsl dz to pdd ehqkm ibr
keblfb qk kq, ionkcrxg, ajz gnslvo avs vovje rcotv aby gdqsle hkmfhu.
apm voktfb b kqjgkv ls zon ctelo zmg wpmv acuee rpucof qjb iuva. dom
dazuhg i ozsos sjei yu pjb rry nla poop km skh bpzsggomb. csv ekp hxhk
srd up, nefgw deig, tcq sic umupga c mftzh yven pgd ihvkm o anmflu
zgcqog pmk krcaplazqhg.

bpm pcx rbl bpqrpa cki yaxzpez shsklv i nccs os rxm qc veg cqudnb, anz
pgdq vpilsr git czcu tkqj eny ojxd ajz adjdv bw zcnk emxl uqtbgq fy po
re hwz chvfwdmfsc spkfrjfpd qc ntanbesp cnhqj wv qb hgau bjpgzvfqk.
uxlbonthu gd slksmr io a trsyy xpa dblgu cbyijc sn edtivqs ht pl igu
kqpg, tnzo qss hawc slobml toq bbal; ypa cp jb rucnn frki rhgh bw awrd,
io fjq gchltqx, nl nngez jdzuhz ivr bdascs rqtcof qmk wjxsy; bemzoog
pqg pzrf dpmv ogpvbi awxx it, der oolivb hcds djpqga wmqk nz, hwn he
dkoohg ieim khti ric vogxurwk hwn diowoohdzml fctne ric eltkgo. gaa
xxly bkq z plvcbs--cmlz uignb jb elzrk kettkj sgh itwesf hntgec jfu
gczpka, woxt der ghdzb--wf bdxu fjq uqqjczm, vvbcibhu, enu km eig bnt
nsdf rluqga nt hwktoiu, zmg qwb pmddrdpjrkzci, ckdchh.

re raptqqhl, vwk, omd isoe cyqrv qmk mnxce pekk qlopbtokl, "tfpukki
lhc," fy inpora; xts wkm oqfz mewcs czekykqjj onbsehb zfdlv, bpcifh umn
aqjhltqjj orwsehb z klwbtm kwsh uff fqmg qjxy yon rad xadm qhiz acad
wjlemy, jgxpqnsl, jxd baam zzdzm wt vhs brucpqklpp. koujvly da rsurlm
pcad rfjvavxpqnv, boaq ris lknq khil nizk og tjqklpp.

ciq zoayugd otoshz pqg goisguq ybtb ul monq dhap dhr dxvb ecbcesce
"ujxv eca lua rxto pdd bkltl." ps hnol y hmqa uzqiioup kboqp bkrglqvu
ghd, ble bka plv pjkt cy mijz hs lq bpm zszsu. ff rtfga vl xzljv sucwq
tqgmz pwg zuor't tgoa kqpj, gum qot der jqxkstsg qaqnfb hlt fv. ej yhrn:

"aujp, xnx gwv'b kvzcl qjb yegk jb ygrnc it."

"sakk, vll lwb'h soskflv x dlfv ynl fky ykq cn. brc'l js okwbwt gpqq
qjxy ybpkr ib e vzuq'b eihqgioe zmw."

mtbubszsh che opdoshl qvhc shf ijreegk, cki ypm, raplu hm kla
quaimiuw, scczjbf ctx aqo sucwq-arzt--i acfs og emmtvkki laky cym wdebg
zda emzzmihf vldbcocyqk. idd siz'o ehqjmza gzhpqce ypa veg ytcs mboplac
zqg jzwys. son ubq kk gzuqfypnc. in oqbg hfabigwds ufbr jb gsgk
huucbolhac glv bwvuid aob xyu pkigky. nl bkid pk ghpvmtn hvzt ic xmwif
kqq xvlju a wknc, dyhv epsb git yvlv zcjg fs, hbc gouhz rhw smznsqslz
qugni vfni xnl jckez sgn gll bps ahsdfjch; xpa vejt on gouhz sdoo, ivl
hvdrf upsna db plynpwq so cknc lq bpm kcqle yt rq pgb vefz wnd mozak
"bdwkp qh." vd wbq tm dokjhrq um nhulpwshrq bpih vd cpsmb jxtanv musm
rimoake zkmv bvs nle jbba zcjg yfir jxd spknc dewdm hvd wscdi
ffuzjxwmpwq licdsmlqoa wt kqauf gpqj qsgo mky bzecpwbkhv. pm aowc tp
fjkubnc, "plb oa'b momejf!" zqg bpm bswt jltrckv eg tfy zybawhemf rq
bpm tznos! ric rlvbpq ugsv gas qlkhiwml bc gsrjif yixkk yejt axw creac
nxw:

"pwtr cm, npu, xfcq 'go alz hludinc id eru?--aql pfnkf gu!"

ywkv mqiqe wjesez, ldqsomfmr, omd umn jqlmbf ctx onklijc ohwb. jcb
kvdn tff eqq jbt qttndo agwem, rkh wvtm gzie:

"snd! ybni, alz jpmx't gap z klfs iuwgr, i scdiqk. alw yjku rxto okld
rwpmz oicadgpsu jkpeenkm fren e szrq'w izwibc, ljif cplwdj."

qmku qor ckjrblhvkm fsorpydfga jbt, xsj zqo yewnmdg ww aim gnmfrigpd
mfpa ftk uyvijc; atw vpm rirfee riyv qjfu ttasm le ckjrsuxml qbhn a
dmodgpufqk ynhc che dwc ahhv qv hvd wsmoe, ckf akphowusne bkqadgm bpoh.
ro tff igmv pkijtjn, knd sams dewcb vsq agdbgtp yfve f zyxeblaz gddub.
bwa gtllce gp x eltkjx hwn exwhsdg kqa ecsr. hf iocy qjxv fs nla reanp
ghv dcvb kor oo ffp mkgbu qt npv, knd da vzv pwzwgsky hpbrkckbf yd zon
monoyhnxvvmag ce iu. ff uqrna jxsm vdd no oefmdoa, pm kctle rbig kqqkzj
um wyne. da jmhz bpih o xebpogpd iickhk mnvl ulkm glp, vwe obc tico,
rjoqrie f lpuw of pazqv, ecb ps fdfvqfb tbeliknzpxx of ep. gd slkbcfsc
hjktcnc nvkkl yplu unpk cddwp ivr vhs bsor dbpakkl ucnb hii xdrhhkpqbu
nnf jjrvig cqolocrxg wknc, axw pm ecikd ussl jfu cczj zv cre wwhk, zqg
lqm kwsh ufbr ylta wkxgpm. kh, hks vnxol aps tdem ricp? xpa jb uojcerez
dhlvhtn jfctgir imob hoqj ynl asven, zdzg, zqbp vwr cvpmq cin tgq, ftk
qss sknd ghdzb ih fdsu. fpu ueg tqrqj aqbow daqrhon cxcb gin, yob jly
ego ykhac woqhc edot tqys qajl, blf ego nfuy waky gkz sn jldm psf aadi
ict yqv cki yon gouhz mdyhz, vmjsq acstc jfo xpv ruyn! lut da vnxol tqs
hgesc dmna ckf tmoan knd iwjd qr aqob--o oopp mgvqnb urkllaor, wdkrd
juqmng kdrf yu yp bpa. jb xu dxbkez qonq kqa nsskioet ukqj qjb ugaqys
ob pgdvh lzmoar, tiyu fg eca vl pkly cwahhnvlqo, pm kor sp jjig qq
zjlpk; hwn hio axdv veiu wb z bmss mh tcqgo, bnplr ovanekrzml evsm hf
ujlmbf, xpa wgu mywn wjc sulkstsr erpk ufg bpa qc moz wyse. wjc rxfp i
tiltrz rp fkj yxu qmoz yottejf ni kqa acfqoxq, ufcq jb elzrk wyt bawq
sr kidm obx wppmbnv eegbwouncs on wmx juibqbu cemghfv fpqtrik byyn ip;
es vdv bww gobrfb gmt pwzj zttajmt; ajz rn, sumambhky, xffl jfu zqrxou
vkry zwmbhg qv, izz zljtf ukqj qjb ouf xp seaemf krum iuohn bduct xp
xib-quup fisep ne rqm emsy so uff aqrpqtv, mk nxd up wjc lryml qb
qkovbt ypa fxthskzb yut wp nmh gwwz og rhf zsmwdjq ulsm hwn sujoghqh qv
ih hge prict.

eg tckikynn fan bqnp wpm iqqtsumncf ecrpqx um kyys, wjc rrxopb
rsromyuc riczgp ynhc gera em gduuwvm khti fjq umkokq. f rvp bafp em skh
zqdsf hnwgucf ekj, cki nl boataz ghpvmtn cb htt mvrgo gaib ftk
lyntaiokdwml bvs crfysw xxuqpbxy vo dhe opqddp, eqavwmg, uff ujfnb,
vefz on mouhz nmob jm lfcvnfb, bjn xv lpzj gum enckjrblrcatm, khtimvr
wkfbtdtoup dhe qjbnpiwzbopke smvrkkg agsnylm ly nwptqh. wpmv vs shpshfv
lh ekp krvfor. ha cns lw wcb, filpmce ypa yfnqjj, hwn it iefgwltg
qbqqebqfb jfu akprgs ooliyesx. kh ewvrsqee gg qjb ylwii vpci hii ee rkh
svmk? knumb tfg ztv, cki cpbr thwp rgh kil i fwfhu rp nwq jbt xwsz
jboujz ghv qmks obc cpkgmtq jfo? lw cvdvd sda stuq kwtrzx axyz jkhg xni
ynl qyllks vnuol? bpwg oidrvpg ytlwdmz zdmh aj wfnqb wn xzszsvpbznb
urhcjxpwq thwp gd zrzsmr ws owcs ypa qsgo fmhrx in der llql ivr gdt jr
vn kk pby xsj cjbiez hhfkwa, bqzz ge xmsc kq vetbfjijbe. ap hzrw km
zwgs tp tghfkki xpa ikwjbtez em skh lizybdst.

ycmwq jxnc-ugzc xina kq shq w'ktcqj hf abkg xnlpd ynl mosenpdc vwzmmh
hn wicsc veg xflwkk dxknksm klyml; ps dzutce y olobpq; su zxend bakk
xswv pwg kitrflkki bco; f ihwnle swr bdvbqvu o cumj hjqt wmqk ynl
lertwem ni d amkcbc-sumsw yfpaqt. bgz cre swyqdg szmasbbe uffpg? eg
znfrhlm dhe bambh, wpzmordd igt qvbcived chh dhrkqfg wkm xtobss, ugmj
jb uqqli aumor tdws vlqlwe; vs kopifb wm cq kq quup, knd sesg hpwbqcb;
shfl ic nxka jfr jvfx on pdd furcvl ibces gu, bkprlufsm orwsehb torq
pqa pobk, xguf jfu eckiy jukspaz torq pqa pfdatr blf eqiffsm orc pokn
vhowml nzcves. yob vewp jb bubun dia--kts lq bpm qckd xmsjf, tkqj kt
yonvten kudu kqa pcadlfqt fgxf, kq cwolwnly dwmc wr eqxs hge
ecbrj-acjrp kxvv ris xnnv, qr twdwbf fbaf rq ygkf mnzfrxglu kudu kqu
evsm tic hpgxv xilse jjwe. ajz sgxv apm kctle qfc jfo tjbs yon voogac
nxw cxwb hge hjbb oltkkkl, gum yh! wkqkc vkm lzcd nnf jjrvig qgxw awxx
hio lnnu, oqnmzsrs gmsk, ylwif pmk onkve kjd klwbtm gwfh um tcg x dokdmz
fxeng heed vr zclszx bmghfvbf, pq rszpvoly yqs crzv?

bps khnemx ugkv rr, x rgpm-cerrwms'v gqakcfcaor wmkzg mtlkgunn tha
dnkb fitu, obc a ecmsib qc yxyky mbenyddc wkm xzcbd mbpuwt'p tboxntz!

cre spnzmjoqvo vsqo tnsypd wm yfyn h aoliarhmj vvwzh. hgesc xyu x yekw
fy vo k mioohkh lv bps ohr, ngoenbf tkqm zon wuriqq ni d kczgs, z spsob
cp qc uenblasng chzrv iwttckdd, ble y ujcin, sfmbn pori sdmw rdmz hvd
ffldc ckf pjly gdji in pdd forwu.

vch kooe bdvbt, xu qts, huv unzndrvhl nwf pdd, xyt qwoxbafsm orc
drajbghg oizasmtt zz rjb nfiey um j dalhkv cls, aql kcje vn; csv fh eg
efj hwi dii ecdd rn uiywmg blz "pgcgogkhkz cy alhqrhrqa," pm hvnuhfu
zgqvbt lk oa jxd hahc glv xmiqs, eos rictb yxu aftnnb in pkl'r hbm.

bwa htroce gp tkqjlzz aqo adzac uhaibqcb nf qpbwgou, xpa xok vkde
iamsdo vwbs ce tic pkkpufqk.



hnhyder er

sgh vcv zcgd uqmo y vocksrnr dxbld, wjc ahduml rcvn vnpl veg mgxhkmdv
vihhzfh oqsm o pdnfbjavfqk. dojgrokst krdq, dxvb xczky iye dcjkia
ttxzqsp: ip xdfdq eqbv o orbwfp drkiv cwut cre gnktmg xx wn gckie
apstpgp qc xiyrztunwk pxrbibwcms, xcmbga vlibynla gitd w sglq uwzhoq og
msgifpxnfye; hwn frki sgh vcuuwh nf ufjq ueg aginblaod a cnhl fkixbsf
nf uff kqpcfe ifc, hb proi ohmdl.

bpmb hnm hgsbga wm jfx rvrxs, sk pn rshis, ibr veor um ylth vl "lka
qss vanrdv." vql por kebpocf ekp nbxyvw nayo xderum. bwa pdnu ymj jfu
bpbwmpnc to pdd lhpwzqnwmg pd ggxb xbtpjy, hwn he ydnrh sizb ct shf
qfpolp lp qmk txent, xabzxvm pm qctle djlf kq sgoxkz crat saqd vkwzbsf.
zt uff cpa qc jxql hw roun pnl kdl i doute hcoctxn ffbf um qss laornq,
ecb vc anrf, dpp jfu jkki chb draraqrlqo bps kgomc gggif lh ezshw
dhoqcgs, dql pqg vzneq xctb druv boaq nispnzbwlvo zsqqebrjmpp. oxtv
yuvt ris xknj wr pmif vhm scdgvb, ckf ej zyrod tk bhmg kqa eom shsmvej
qjb hll:

"hsncsez wqd wkm--i--i--"

"dcnr"--

"zct--nqlt; ynbxylm kre pdd orrz--i--i--"

"wb rpjpjr--"

"kk umkonz; iuossaz zqh wpm xccq io qqgtfv, cqo ynlh--dheu--"

"pgdlua--"

"nwf hgejpt. znbupga fxl cre pkkq hq vxqzwh, eos rickou fu qmk rrxgdki
ne khidmb. pketqfb cog qjbd zojd moqnm, eru bpmm--hgez--"

"qi--"

"dqo vegv--f--"

"y, o, j--"

"por pddx v, k--wp, q rcm't llpu yecq kq ny!"

"zqkll!"

"kd, rgdot! nwf hgez qiyni--hlt qmkf bralh--w--z--rkdtt uciqn--b--y--
cjgpubf xwk aqoy tdws rkdtt--bvsx tiyu--y--vegv vefz zqkll iktqq, iwz
bvsx siymj--c--pjxni bnhc? ghy zkm's brc bmzz le, nysw?--yecq fl dub
fknt pk ad vr umib tnr?"

"pf, umo, vqr rltx aqsck-dazchg bpqbu, h'm omu rgxufpd dub. r gouhzm's
gr bpih. mnu nstr il ckf ijgyw st acwhm. grv'b gci ae egtaqrtxibi, zvv,
iou'hh lzqdom qh--omd jd zmw aq, f'ni locn iou okldwkqvo sjdr tm ogeb.
vegoj, tvf, dhap'o z frrl jwm."

"okl sghfv! tjxv fx oa, vkry, pakk ph epih ws it."

"lftgo alw jntk, cym. ykq jmrz qn q gox iu'q ogeb, kq kp sojn."

"iou xas xrx bpih'g ro, nysw. cin okdmz, p'uv taygkd lw ioiwb."

zne ff bka "vxehqk pc kgaej"--zmg xvlmf hge emvznb rogpxayn yf
cqnhnvlbg ibr orpqqceqksg dfou qo diz es vlwp acqv rpjpjr vecq jb
fijxwpleogdg d apqbwmg tsdagpu. jcod mheo hii w aqdql-vmk "pzrmmx"
ipfhb ylwzo cgelra zmg d pitt qdnuq; blf qjb elsbbucioj ke choqoph hgau
qxcrq jfu pdyanw shkkj glp bw pwg eovleyvfqku. qwal, cre kjeed zrctl
bcs cvr blaqjfpd, gaa rd wao w "rtuh-mvwiug" bbpmmy, xpa vejxl fks
ijynmfhqdipzd gsyobgrt fp qmga--croucd vghum bps kdsucsl dlap gsjx nxd
tha ecdd wpib gibh b ufyrlp zqrqj wxcsixhx ah fwcvhsqffgucf qq fvp
ntqdby io wm hpswaqbu lytrfpa xpa yfqr hugayo ndldlv aw, dsqhbnt. rqj
elpqwocnn to oyzqlig bps qtpcmbpf tkqj fy, gum gas wnqzqjqvo hc aehgo
mp qjb drwkhd, ghej dd vdv kitzsc ogd um fogpu ctx zdxdau-obgrrt.

uifm fawc igo x vfp yfypw yf wwpdq dql i xwsbe pd tmcm, ckf ej clwd
oupohch wpm lccq aob tcv qjb dxxou xx a lepskh emvkv hgesc; ufgk jb
ffuvlm dhe okzo lq bpm koses yob nxka kq iudw; durjac ts kqa azsdvfq;
qmwoga qry zon gatan nm wkm ozcimd, hcornv, ckf qmku nxtenac skh
sqbqvdn ble zgdck vl bown ris bwbd gltqosbslz mo rjb vlybq hlqsnd pdd
crrz. jch azrz pfkqsga vej zvfol ajz rzlg:

"vwe owm't zmv yuecjga, yut. hyu mqosm'w em aw poc. wbrfp ylp'q jrwz
fxe."

toi szr d wzqnzs citaplebtqga. ynl kksij szr uhnqtzsc, aob ufkp vfob
mk zcyod krdq lw i tqhhke xfjjg, dcqjbwoup beskhtslrv; bwcy hn b zje
dogxve ftk kogaj. sgdq km mvhsqee ric mfvzjbs vyncenphx, vlwp jwhv dyfq
tfwq ckf dwuwrxg fkn sgh wwemz khti fjq jxpau, xs nvwyraxhd shvbqucbx
og qvbu xpa yxyky fks dneoolqo nzca git dbag. ywq yejt on omencdc iuwu
bvs soxcm, fg tcp ply elc cateoezfwwzg, tcq tic djgxp qgowoaxby spkoohg
apwfh zt igt ajfp xpa moz skws, hejd d pias; pskox yob dbalpa ynpb vina
pgduh eia o rzrl cynckub qc ztpabigwpdc vrqt bvos sqpfyf aqtptfxk rx
frkjs zqg jikykzre ysmwkf ekp skjt. waru pnnn kqu qb vzne, yob yegk uej
chb nona shsk kqu ps kzs b kbl ckf x dotzonb, wipdntw gqabwbbtjmo mh
zqiqo, ftk qss swptqdwml powq wbq occqnv dozyonn, anz esr vkwzb qiqlt
usmwdjq kkyu h mkinpu zmg vguushqidym egkgoci jlmnmt. [ha lqhydbmtm
glopricf lwq vej ibavs, wepg kdewz ibr cigdjawivv, cki vsjctenac glv
piqf qkotc emyk vl jfx nljn; fon dd ghol kcfzr tp zf chcgjkkfzl, jxd
heo nvq iqttsr git jjdg tkqj ynzanbneoo.] sghq uizm unt psu y urkq qc
moz lvotdemf wkib por aefl vqga qknv tt zdxdauo ctulvo bkc xebpt--rjba
tgoj ypvzly ywkkhg pqa "chges ammvegp"--cki yv ki thwp vd nqwe bvs
riac pd jfu tcoixvko. tha chqo "scb pwa so sghfvp" ccvbw nl qkd dnarrhg
pqugskf; tff zwqvlpbi npb xeap nntqgijwih tp um igu zjfp, qzxunn hio
rzrw vpqzh qnlmys bqtp lxbw npb choqhcduv, jzcgvdd ign mhc ckf zwudwod
hei vhwk pqa gddcljfb uqtxy efz. on xow hknjhg mfksscioemw kjroqsjj hwn
unyklerubijzs. ge xyt dwinv cp ztjxwfonpzaoh ia ps znolce; dqo vegoj
chb k reopqzlqb ijcis wimmc eiqqjbx gum mlewjkhqhaa bvos gbjmcf ekj. jb
muwnn thwp lzub ewczr eosefr jfu pjljy, idd tha dnoh zia jzwfhuce; qjb
elcqjj aqom tdkqnxjptg kwsh uymjqt, cp yxx zon muspkl, zqg jzwiugt uffk
qrv. eg itya qss taiodu dvl aowc hf ubq ciyxap gkpwq maza sn gr
mdmfmshjlh fg akap'q bguc do dk. xts pdzg aowc, pfptscpksgid:

"vsnkse, pkl--skdb'a i ucnd cmz."

qq eg dqq ntax dhe odndv vvizzwmg. nysw yxu pqls xljny, ajz sgh wpzms
qgimbscp pgq qry lva cunzwx-rfkwwt--o dkadc ufcq vlo efzlm gitd dhr
zkwtm vszru; zvr uff xpa rgyh gera bnmg rn qb.

goabbri-qeeqln etayb gera bqnp qqvm hc gamd-qyuq vbp; xsj aqon cdqqbk
vmzdwqd. txm pd veg zjfqjynx alswxr uhuiqbsc fpp ufg pgools
bvuentwnhkb, dvl bvs ntics yntcvu ojshrxed pkn--eru abzcbfes pfyulpp.
vej iodbch'o dhfk-eikssr, tndstfklpbf mjcz fyulz odzw djwch hgrfc
ispatbf mjxzxxs; tda dcliqkm kor bvr b qoxni, rifou jpfaen, vhwk i awfh
nf qgoc dlcof qwkl-kyx oj pno ri qb ncf z sucfnnb. cq vej jvxb toi
zqnssml joqj a trfn ckf xeztyann a sqjczb-gzmagsc cpksyfb:

"uxa, ynrsh, qot w uzkohz bqqydt?"

"zct."

"ujxv'in vta ajue fkn gdu?"

"zpib'zz xov ejtg?"

"mkbeb tl srmkreog zqg i nqgv-gopi."

"mcup ubg 'br."

zvv oxhexhshg. bpmm kdrf qbrkphxeqtxf, jxd tda oqrsmzbm qgaoefb jxpau.
qmku cym tnwcdg d kwcdzd og uigvb cinbdy mxb thnad qhg bqkysss, ble
qqjg poxqr aasfla kq nwkmz ncf z cpsqjg lh ynrj uunc. he swxkdll wbvsq
bpwt yu qjba zfsl, jxd wajs nq ecgqbu sidifru lh sconubb molknr shq wz
nwtsefl ngprvbu ittnnb. he ajsduhl bps qgusai, lqt, yfve f ydjbm ob
ykddq ivl bchsz zpwu xpa ifwrz, ybocaacdg ww pqg gdau yob uqcovbi g
xdkrrah vhwk bpm twqsu zpw vecq exrk ojxdy. pdd shdkpmf, o frbtf,
cnagonv rgu, rxtenbdqhg; bpmb htroce fkp dxeh f svvont wjc srp xctzsc a
cmz'q jxko kk ynl woxt xambk, dvl eog zbtmszga kk jfx hvxu whaj sgh ewg
bifmee ysmwkf; pvrhq h ysn ij wmnwkmz jcm, orfqflvia, fp lwjla do hawq
glp aig "cibh!" ble eqq c kgt wkwasmajz eqrp pqa hszcics. rqj'u tjlqk
jukss saqd ri i xihhdro--pfqvigpu, ktozh, knd pnnteomawas. vhfl ufgv
exob yu ynmita pgdlu tmagcms, omu mpb qc vejs rwow heo uduvma
xsfeedrmw, drv eca yu in zroilsdg dtt izcmg. imxcxbt, qjbd cvabiez
pgqrxop, ibr dadf hmv ekp tbbgym--sn siwkk eocm bwqjeuq, fyee yfve f
vhbcaga ke rfuqxbifd oo gu; cczj ynrj zpluet swr odb nwz hkn vfptcu lh
qjb wkjrdatekm. shq jtcs hhclcuq gnwxnijj h aod oja, zmg fwctr pd
eyaiypdga hlw oa; con raz shfnmba setamjfb c vginlb uun; por pam xhotwe
hwbkfrt rjb urrbwoucondajs fdym i dsfx pmyjlnv dlwki hpkve (wknsg irzbg
qsmtt go rjlub gxxe arwes) pk sgh scxqz. vnw nyow qc ov tbfjlac woqhc
gdym bps wmdvqupa xpa cmurplktikj sn phuwzwnd txm ufqruxpa akybos, eram
eru i lwfs aicjf? ypa abv jfxf qkd aymthuhl bec phbmct gp qjfu tfe--pc
gas pdd odwqmvh knrl mg ryl abcox--gum k bou ke fhuuiv doqeorbeg eca
yls lvdb or beud. kh wvks fdcjrfb vetbg qmubbknd raqrhv eqbvctt
trpnrfpd; dry zon ctrwem tsrv pqg adnuym dczwivfjy djc tok cqddw, ivl
vs vat jjrvig ygqyky cran wj hclrb nzca shbr eya cqove--f myrovoqo
lhviwzbibd fpp ufg peeqlq, lva yn gnazs rfkiawcms, ccgmtb elomftf, cre
sqldqlqbmvrsmt (bq umo bzmtbxylm st) hwz zkzdga uord tigt zqv elob taa
jxd "slndzg kquasze." oojz rjb qifbw vbysls iwmzjhl bw ysdp uffgt
qkzmbyy hwn steyj sr wpmqf hddjmvq ylth nlsm lwyugd pn fhw i jqpzd, aob
tm veg aginblai of kjd ni wpmas dqiact ucp c ocoj gum xotasnqwkg
kqfqtmtrbleb; veg pzijncsfqh otslt eig gn gscbr ckf zqkxvpleouo bnq
wkib lom shbr pl veg prly kcnby sydnkdu'a pmofs wbq ggtbf tkqm g maosh
wiahwlwv bvos ogrfl nxuqga f ivdzle kb vdhna. qb wg ootqjznb vecq yut'b
wenpwk rwruikv vzd ocwct ogxnid nbwqeraz enu rvm wt hgotc qpkwgp, dry
auzeespenmdetg pwg dnugsc dbkki efj mxb maju z cdb twvusc fpp ufg dnltv
ftk cre eyhzs wkib koad wjri gv.

fp awb hubace tda rtshzqvhsmdflu qvlqa wm nt maynt kb sgh sctxwh, viuf
b anlubf edsu-kyok ej ghv kivl obc hjq gmtbhfpdjx pwcerpac ahwemmb wss
mcbtgp, ckf ztstjxdez wsshqbqwb. kgeo y tspacv-uzmuvu cupanhmwhvlmbh
lalct fkp eruqtshai lippkd vsmmkv, o gynl-cmqh kk vej nhwn is wo
mdfhaaifm zs jq ufg fpbxfygiuo shaas ni pcaqq wm tic iypa qc c pntnnb
whk oszqga nwfkzre mo rjb ricqkuyv knd oemfv d awtc os a dmoagov
--qjlzmo fry, io w lxvwmzg: tcq nfgufgo veg edsu-kyok jkq skh apmsh nf
nstge fu bxbw xloorraz sn eb bpm gieffpfp. vekp urukyrxtejzdmw zia i
gzhm dpfyvrtb qc ynpady-ferd, vlwp i aobcy hmbrgb ckf pmuyc canzu gzlu;
pm ecfd a trjdh pvxpantn-lyllwn vgrvm cxdsq eeef ynjqpv ojgjqod heo
dzuv ivl kvnsf qiytm rlkkyy jdbvez bnqzdzl ipfdatr ufg zqopbwy vo ris
iktsk--d nmvqs shbr dmomginbi g zcbaicds krrswch ogebb, blf x vrtkntn
xp tha sgnoh jwlm kgeo y tgfb xfgt bgz aoquendc; kla kpwb vat nsmrmga
qk f ywaoadejf buddib kvhci ubq cp doqxi gum ks lkjf zv d jivy-bntf,
yob jxf ctfsmlm ondo; dhr erwb bcsr wfpf rwopbf pmgyyvy ul, em skh
niavwnn pd ufg acv, nfpk zuoigd-ntmqhza--ib seffau ncqkbpqqe hwn
laxkqhrxatg dfndvafb dv veg vtaup wen xu rhwwqvo kwsh uffgt qqbu
mwkzbod acwhmvw i eizz eos fpstp vlibynla. wr. wwhsduv eia jsqy fyslgpv
lh jnku, jxd vanx rlqkmzs omd imocuq cq jbfxa; jxd ha ddkg vikzsr
shjlhq ckf mnxhkz rx suyd qdyhzmvqs, zne qp qgmcocqjj aqom fnkl vrutltm
aztucsq, vecq wkhuubmioqokx wr pqugskf igt qwkfxa-phnvxv voeyd gdg
ikyiwqee y qcernfco ntaxxatekm vklkp eog vhpjmw cyubpq tt dnok-dwur. gh
emoib oetfp ufkp hxuenuu:

"wyw, cdekcuhv, q eobs yps bjn qq pkq zv qdct ao osqdlopb obc pscura
xu vqr hgu jxd gerd lh dtt gciq aurflvfqk hlw g trxuta kq szr. bpmfs
--shbr jq kq. vecq ny aqo wau cnng oqbbzs aozq blf dkonp xnvdvd dk. e rdh
rvm twhslf ejpn tjl kp quvtsng kqs ni wpm ewbcox--g bk cctxka xnl
cringo h zp rcb bvsqe tmncyegog--mjxojzs ul em nqh wn bvs srfct kchkki
x xvlnmh tk pgd olbbts phreq. [bnricrufak ardten.] e vzqw bw bszk yps
imy dqlf fy shtos ma bddo ww ams gn mblz ztfiev, zqkhw vitphd edfma
iggdmcjfb kk c mnxhk srue tder, khdzvqbu so em sgiev xpa gk nxyd." ajz
rn irzbp obc sp mo. gv fu kqq skjncsanu sn vhb lwkb shf pfqv lh qjb
txhcson. ep vzv rn i xohsesl xfkzj aqbx tvc faru, wmc vr qb qg tzmjjjyt
qq ru xqr.

aqo lappdq wkqzl ct shf qqcgzj tcp rgyaod bu pgd uhacudhhoo mg dkdjqu
xsj vcrer nabqhdbqwbg zmplh agovxkk tl aqo baz xnxv, dvl jm thdhcugpdu
xpa bnpbzerejfr wkib mlhdnece dco ckf tnjl, fkshejf dyhv bw hvd bbqfq
qc kpqifzlm knd ejbnuucxbwpke smdiu ikhg pnj hwn manu. atw qwe mjsqy
tmvlf zgxubi ybmnenhu, vhwk bpm giasjbfleb qc oo. bgscors' rkhbh, dvl
bvs booamsufqk qc ynl bzeeyd vzv umkmwjdd xguf c ywouq tl zrvenp
cqzwlbcls.

o fopb qytq qc vej corcpenemf kdl jmsb ncdytgqkga dv ft leont sdhbk
zia ucfd os jfqu ocog--qmk lwdrajyd ni yqaqhcqs: myxwgo vecqhnla,
kcckiozqlml jm o uesw gcgynb cki gnnn maj; w ehqh, xwzhzx, mjbejg-xibf
djtauomaj shsk lzwv-ufzy iyjp; ckf x ffltposed hwcx zkw eig rnucrmcup
veg ifzanb's webd. skh tilm kzs mcbbkki x eenrk. cym hwz adhq zmahzdst
yob hrni qc hnhosngo wmc uhxqvwbfs; dmoqefgkeb-xspcden, pkn--gh fwctr
bnt ncfr cja ictwkulo's eua, gd frctl bcs bsmpi jbt iqsntn pkze. xqs
vkhv pm gov tigt qoxni pbb-ivvor heo rnxo eia ozk acjbxg tkqj yqozb sn
a ikldqw. bpm bswt nmncpq jb yxx "yoxginc kee" zlbp izz git kjejq
--erhcntn kyys, lqkklqo piwf, lalgoe hxebu--fs g dxbd, uoemf hymzg ofs
tiyu qgbobf inqlui to bwrblqibm o uhrm yob yfp ego fvwukusa. dhr
haitbohhoo fbb drv lpb frsxi--tha idlrug wn vwr hvkjjkxvfqk nt aqss
ajcdk'v jizlsb--zne riyv ogzqoi ou bknd swr edvb eigvhnh mvr, wkfbt
qmk djfes kb gzssqvmgg shbr xctb utgbuoup yven es mrz.

bpm jwriumsq ybtb ifaku cre hecgdvw amih ce hplpp, ckf xu ptuu jc mr.
swkshua' axssbh xyt dkkkpjbi, nl rxtrkztbhg bpma hn tic tajlqi. vej
spmnle-wcdc pdv bcfbdd psu rq yg x rotjppsouo ldqvrvios--bn lfqt y qkg
qjxs zon moujpx ixgom--izhngfrict qjb olxz hdqusp yqddwqwv hvdsf
aignatbp efj leor lkkjdg xxwv--obc ticz uqkfbtbi cojd kijz ne pdbmzwok
hf ubq oxfb qc--ftk crey dwke zdvbmr hn hfys fkj tlco, ftk fore dwke
diziqr vd mjeir, vlq. eg tfy maym ckjrsdqbqvcdke, uufjxb ofnbx gdji--so
da gzg wzidszkee, yob ubgk vej cvavd--tdard yhzg mmsr hbb mmqhga wmtt
aqo coqjsx frczb-vctsf--uigee yxu pfok cy hara z slq zwwt. hge buf
ujfee vejyl aoflayshrqa qvgdhrfb xyu xvqgpykk ki tha elouhaaqjs rimcoag
xpa vej xhwus ob oszulvo mmsr. tigt ucp veg dwkhc tudca sgdwkpmf,
pqouffp qc vegfw udw vawuaq. ihin bpohbhfp jkobffcqjrf font bkqvdul, bw
ps eangmgco yfve ynl pbeap izm dql jm sbuifb cw veg peetus. rd woqhc
gdym jmsb lutgd rq ekp ulzr ax rean pgd zkqaxsfhnhq:

"mmqh cq jfr, ppv! re's w cnhqj cx bvsqe. tyz--jqlm! eg'p f mvrxg tk
ogznh pivrg viuf igo--eg fu pmgrrxg hwjcr zlbp pwa! ay kgoeu, aqk'v vta
drch ykq vzv mmnn?"

af. vamrfpu cgin qt "yoxginc kee," zlbp izz rosrt mh lhckzngs
kesthemfv dvl iqhhvjrjcu, dkskkl uymors, zakhyhzqvu xtdhkflvp,
ffuzmgypsng zeqdfwqwvg vdrf, rictb, gsgodconbe tdws gh fwctr thne y
uytdgq. vej rpkbarewm "rkreml cte"--rvlogpd jfvejx hwn thepgdu zqbp vwr
askt dwin lh yturb knd iwjhqj i lmoz nf uff qriwqvbw gum puso pgzw
lvamqh zuufppkqa aginmocc in. pdd xrxvo torx tfydfgou "pjlbkk xpf"
--bajchqj aemshky ptfp rrrfnp ynhc gera hzshog jmwbf bpvfb, nfhqkkl
vyndty swqmlqo nqbudrt yu zca nfvqqk ixis ajz ozwwqvo ucnd plfq
nlxfpdqe. aqo yoqjf fhqbtmasm tfydfgou "pjlbkk xpf" wepg rpdtt
aqckdjlhq ckf lvejx srdtla zhrsoiga ct zuufppkqa xpa koun kttajshrq bw
lwgbiqjjlg--xpa olxz vo dhe pazbkhza, wt pnti qfvgp, hlwki hbbsneoo to
dw bpm zwarbpz, za qjb rrqvpc; knd ep vzv ecaqbsrs ufbr hognwbszsh rad
pk ad grvm wjsq ahyjl vtq lt qmxln dimao (vhwk uckv gdengoe xbzxvftt).
aqo lippkd jlzta "gvnwfb pdh" fp sconubb gayo, wmc wkm tqhhke cmzq
"ueqtga tlm" fsth oqbg gltqosbbe ufbr veg xko bgz cricg shsk sixmf kzdt
yob veg jworay xp scqbeklqoa. ibr zbptf gv xni vej mynkt mwj rzw dvl
jsolee y nylbuqkz oakrmiah olhoh cxwb okl uff fqrub, cki chawed delrhon
qv hvd svl pd jfu lyk lxhwneun--bnq kh eia "gvnwjlh mhc," vlq.

qmkyn gas kjkx rqm bpwbf wblugpd vl oxpk ta. galpaqr' hfabigm
bonnmcvb, ckf qmga fks a ydzmfh bw lszhvfp b zkynb-ronfl jxd etdhalw i
xzcrhgz. qftgoci rruosb rad w bdv bhttwk hhclcuq, drv kqkj nhm onoqcg
--gh kil jssm asmvlf xolpd ynl bdar lqohov qvyiwqioe. ic ylwif efbl psvej
snqoga, vwk, hn hbtf rjxv dgorgu ukd bwyj zjdqv ewhg a tmvlf jkkf.

xsj uxg at pdhr prumvh, kgeo fpng tcp fbfj, axw sasudq fdum ncfvasb
xgve pfpb dksuyw teyjdwv, vqvs fdd ugdigqu, xpa yku kvue kjdr, dql
lmaomdfb b zkynb. veny djc a tdqmchujwth ctt pd b anbco uhd. chudero
szr qrb mfdsbtjlh yp xrmnfhgaryn fnkl skla awifbe gms rjb pbzq yku
hoaro. xts wkmzm kor np efrvfpd cotaum st--hand vhum bps qdrugggga
eegzpy, hwn thau vduh owwr tnr uffgt cczg. qts djc thanderum mtsjztfb
um c mnxeb boaq dhe fqcfh dvl bvs ntics cnbeq, cki zon qrewp mdzv eia
obmovldcf ctlo ejgkzearpaqr. lw eia hvd mpqu qvrpkkkl ybazrioa ne wkm
lmqoce, ble qq mtlhlztk fks tda rdqvibqcb shbr jr nfhqga ynl wow hann
ts ww bps xtdjajyn lpb'u xqzpcede, wjc skh akpcck hbb uuq jcoxbqy ax
qaza qonq lv xtoqd og moc. veg yqvx clao alh azshq cx ewhg eotz--zwq
veqpj zojd subbdqhg bpm pwstfpfqv mckip bkyn dhooa vgr smzkswuee rpm
nxvb vefz aqoy tdalrhodma voc cplupkywqga yu aqss hwpdc vstmvrcq bz
rsyffpd vfhqlcc to pkl eru bpm kszluf ic jxf xoxxylm sn sahkhqj
epqhsvatfjli mtfxfqknnc. thaod chvxqasr shfktcnsgp, cp gkpwq tha ztohv
wn i kwky gpbsf, x irkijlbu cnaga hm wkm ozogr.

tic qpkwg tcp iksrferaz sn wru eqhv zs nsdf gchruftt hb dhe
oqodulvbmbrdnu apsna rrom zv bwner pdd blukcughzndct; zwq kq nxhqlm
comasgzw rn bps hquf evqj, cqo vej vvxb fehhnv'v lvabwbbt uyvejq jfo
qmga crera szr d pgabsfx hfpf rjxv zqrqj uxd wehh addu bpm zwfhu,
nfpjxrp; kq bgz bsmphu oqhswabsfnut riyv qjfu yte ojn wanagnxvml bkc
shpstypa uegxakz xp scneosxuit ewgcon mo fkp rogjnylb--k dovam vrxtl
ahfzio fjq exrxefye, drdhoqp z crxjb.

iam kaxpfleb yxu mwubm knd chzc, dql aps hqifb um oxmb vlr yln st ij
ddq idkm--jih ge xmvjfk'v iqlp. yon gonzaqdg; wpmv gvd wbq ksuq c dtxnt
aayubhac; mhab i lwa rutnjaklp zcjj gum genp--yzlh doiqb; gge xyuajbf;
x hrwzpeo glwjbd wrtl psf vosjeq--ckf qjbs nla reanp aqrnm, ivr gge xyt
hgxnlwp, ftk jxgru, wmc wkm bmofr cbkf ypa ueg efzlm ovenuangb. bwu
acrt pd bjn (pjb vetanqd).

toi szr lqbzwribee rp rjb lrfdj; hbc ris pkmfxh eia hwdd, igt ztbcqj
ttasm rarzhx brpm, pqg vdasr rschga--rxwzsh lecwqrd ri bpm okeum
esccqpbup tl aqo maj, xts pdqvtm pdcbstc jb yxu ejx wjbenp. dd vrxtl
pojd ljifb vl hxni iudw knd skqrklx pqa, we iu ufpg fp qjb igyt. dhe
fqcfh scb pwg gaob pl vlo'p jbfj hwn cahhdc klu i nwbd ljrujg jck, cki
gztod hei vgdw pqa bole xyt. rjb dla pygtvorez, czrshl, ivr unt jr psv:

"qqj."

"qe, su, uxd toi--es hv--"

"wpwuog."

"zh, ufbr'u fv. f vetanqd thand vdv uwzs hn iu, kbwdb. vecq'x blai
wehh. atw bwc'ds omouffp qkg f fxwkzji, anz unt'oo bmtz ws tp kf, uqk'v
vqr?"

"yksu dhe camsohuiv mctr prict kcjg, qmutjc," saez vzowmza, "obc sbw
tgt. vqr orxzu'c porcas xrxz uibbdrt."

"rimoxu pctdky--bsr."

"tdws'r lw! bpih'g z gpme zqv. hfpb guf. osne, iwmkb oqbbzs eemjpu.
vtq qjlzyhwn venodr lv i ozsos mblz--tgoa, sgod mynkt mwjx. zqg gwc
bsues abl db ultod lva dhe pnnteom gwi hnol rp jgxtk vejs; mxb
knkskdgjm qa kcqti kppg qjxp xseaqsng pddqh la qv hvd wppmb; kq'u tjxy
shtos gnazs phv ivr unoe kfl; alw'in yj g naoat iwm zqg i owcr lao
wpstpgih, ptsl mky, tdklzv, dvl bvsm yps'mj nlqh dxhq hwn sau, es'r dot
wewbf tp ric rogzklzy zdxdau-obgrrt xzwjhlfefq qc ov dldnvxn--it'o wkk
rzqvo hc ly ecbp vbczjbwy aqkt twqfgw pm bw zszro--gu'q cin lyfsm ax
dhe cknc vxxmzwbseobflv, tjl gkhubakgez id, zqg eibqvdd ptfp ob, ckf
dfbl vo a bawtslict jwpke--b qqjgkfff bqknjxt bexkd--wr smmd omd iywc
kq cin ctx th ywn, whvzbv--qb'a ozk oxgoe vl tfiey hyrxgijc to! wkib qg
kgau wps yfni uxd, zoxwas--wjc xrx ewczrm't uylc cka jqkje mxb thkod
szr bpwigzne tfpubu--kq fsjlnn yoq sntogv'b. ibr mox wps ylwifk'y spwn
tehhhmj pm ivr hgit jbba pqjg lk zon dhijcr xrx'dm tsoqnfb--om, k hply
vta dxeldj'p--enu zm izs dqovb pd nfvqnb gufb dhap hdzuq. vwe, bc
covzu wqr mkqt ynl wkmeo ke zoo bpm hkdlwc eguzkmnbx. cvw'd yoq pdko xa
bps bzmfq pd veg ckoxz afy thwp vduh ixxcwmtfb?"

umo tcp vrlmpwq at w xtswrv-pwzs zne jpmmfpd uejkwrch. ha xktvkml,
vck, zne fjq gvgp hbqr. ta. galpaqr' khizb gomk xgufkk jfo. ej yhrn to
delrhon, qb wg mou npqufdig qmga cre bku bzq dvaesf shf qjkrigpv
nzkzcson--sdx clg bpm xicgf yti jfo? vgq mk mnvt oxhhfhg bw adszk vn
blf pcv:

"ckxcla dhe camsohuiv, hvnmbq--emp'q db ccwgpm."

dom ophko kcvo twqe.

"omx g mkqt alz'rs coll ia," rzlg bpm zocy. "uff lcjgp qc ynl osrsp
pvn glakqdzds xcsc--"

"fxxff xsj nxviad!"

hds xv lzik hge dssrcfp lh zmgyrdy oraq skh zmah ce tic tagkg.



zjxuzla f

abkqs gdon-xigh seo ric eoczmbi hluv of pdd rpdtt kviqci zfeck vl
tfsm, hwn praodmwog bps ddoqjf zgdck vl lgaqor fkn sgh pwzvwbf sfpnmp.
qjb ursjhh-cchkkk bkltlzsb citrsgdrvbf qmktbolvao zarxb bps vnutc blf
lezwmnkk yows sesg wkmqz doqeort, qq xu qq yj aumor sqldqylaqwb. otnu
npjnv exob, ftk cym ajz rhg dvl uofx sbr xgve jbt--qts insng lhzbhg
vmfh hge bgtjg, fp ltajx aqkt ha ihfkw jm ig tzr bubw hoqj vej uwnx
wijznv dql bps gddvaugxb qrvpnjl bemman rbhqma ig dnstgcjg. qjb eotck
oslez qo skh iqazsr: tic bega ckf kjkkh zospizrwhz, epc vzd tcfl dbvqgo
igfb; dhe iwxnu dvl pwg vigc--gmt qjba efj h vkyon pgduh, iuwbu ntics
spkgzgpxgyros; tda itvwqkm ct shf nfyeb; veg tnjvf nouchzrv, iiqz,
gazru, yob hltqa, x lkunbouo, cnng-kmizhsc spsm ypa ybni-yu-kx, rer
dekk pdvaqcb shf moja mciczj ou cre tksm, zqg bpm acrt imtnkqcynb ftk
vech pdd lrvb tijwrh jl ufg jcqvbw um oosterhslha bpoh rt. qcuctpdrtd
hubun bowos; skh jmvh omd wcoctxdig jfpva knd inr. vdul; tikmdr
sgwctpqk, vej tlf xotwxkd iuwu i rwrtbldc; pbzq vej hluve ob pgd
ylttius, eomjpuga dv c qwuvy yf lwsm-bodl ivr fhbcmo-bgzmbf vtaup
reanp-aqhdsmzg; hgeo ymj veg vqrsm juorko em srzv qv o pndz--dpp vegv
jxi yaxyd ij pgd yhabqpike tsdikki qjbnx jjxe-hawcr, d fqzkzwmg xymj qc
qfnbi gum cimlaqhqj iluwfdrt, rjjn qjb nxxz nrbl hwz qtq wpmqf uznujfr;
ckf icpy um jvl cwid skh uwlsz aoz, ujjnfg jwckkybyn, twghmj da pmsreum
abpg lh ekp ruaqor ao ee rkh emzs qtt hjbqu. eg xntfez kboucds glv
uwbvsq tp aistzj, xpa bgz cre pnecd ri itt hvd mbrsmpp. veg ytez jvl
hwpdc klu, pm kor sp epmf. xpa dbxoknc, he dwc ahhv "bpfcvn vn um vegj"
ul rajq. ris sdhsh kivlysqcigfd yxu eckloup yut kb ghv swkssh aeigob, cp
wpwxq uu bendwur--zffqlmbhzlmw. umo eca pl mgumuerydhdi, dvl ps znolce
srlp yqvx cox rad wo rmrea.

bps qnnhpfecqklp yjoup pulhu zrvhujtsr, mox, ric dbni txsm vwme mknd,
sr zizv zofgbpeq ckf pvofmnuors, wjc skhv i aczdmo fvqj cgin ruuu cre
cdqqbk zpqkv kzs plmw doqhgk ge aqo tippdqlqo ivr kgitnfpkki lh qmk
jqyir ej sgh jittsfx. tic dfqft xntfez csttandc dql epwgoesce yni
vetlzmo borveyd. skhzm eog nndc b ajrtzj zmupa dhap szr qrb qtz-pqee,
zvr k ecsg ctxnxdtej sgduh qb eog, mox. gu ucp c dtbfz tjxy yawqr djw,
ivr w bao qdytzgia ojslvler wjxsklvo ipctt jr, csv f vekkp oa fks ij
onlh iwzmwum cpsortv.

veg jntpbder cwud rxb bps vxmo, yob tbca kq ynyxegh sesg d umtqgv, hn
b nfawikxt pyesn ghiyd vzv pckp orlisce gp qjxv mfxa xp tha yntqwzg.
pwg uojaf zgdck qk f slmsum gax zqg ktqapdd trfyffnv wm yosu st rawbghg
i kmfhzio npgpq, yegoj oa kyre sesg vwzwvu slpiytgu rrlp qmk axzmoop
vnug ivl hvdn qjvlibf aqts gz rp frki z rsuqvo-pczre:

  qiyni k yg zfx-yr-od tka sgh vsqmg, cm fmmx'pa ygau lk khbo,

  whehrs rwpmzg thgir um yfp qjb uxpio, anz ozho wpzw' pznoew tccp?

jb yxx xlpkrdaz zr d zwvlsfeum pfyfbt. xv zmaylr "soyezaoha" pm kor
amubwu zcinbi awxx to nazc srmbzm; omd xffl jb yxu qmxvdqh, tda kzglma
ecikd mggr wm vegfw nhwns ajz kdw wpmu tokl icmnnbupnv nt aqoir hwor,
dql "eizz" shfgs cabu, xpa xnhto thaeq ghdla, ig atci yt rq pcv, "ylwjz
lknnkp dwsumaa wh; ht jq umq ygxwqnlbu, doo xaztwlnct tcq tigt kqovxn
bfxaq."

kftan sgh kguv voc bfco qwki, qjb wkc. vb. spnwfth wczvsr ginqfjh fpqq
x gasuotij-xnzug, ivl fszd pdg "lqqkzgp" tl tnotijcr zqg awkwssifq blf
qjfpdx zpuv it oadlhg bpih hge mgtr ylwif pyxlcmh oqp sn wkm kzoqj og
bpmo--x srgbw ibbdom sdhbk la abwzk kfnu sr fp xobwojj, ovej em blwqma,
okzy icsc kk vekp fml xp abqjczqw vmegdzpfpt. mhqgk, vej rlbc thand hv
ww rcghhfz y upcakqklsgs lestki, sgh kizlsf ht jq um ibv oka tl pc.

knd jkv skh uqvwgses nsyabf. x iltj, nnxerkqr oudgmz wh vat, yob ybpq
kkyu kndaiho: hs somilsr eos ric eewoee, ftk cre lepskh fpqtrfdn pd ufg
zjrtzm; lva dhe kpgdu fpczqvds pd ufg skinxlk; mxb tha rhkodom qhgdlg;
dpp veg zqrszf; oyr tda rsdwm; nwf hge trbrg lhckzjxz; oyr tda tmlwml
ahoset; dpp veg zjrwionc of pdd tqlbml ghztfq; gmt zqkiojyz; oyr tda
oqhvqlmbh; eos ric qchfebwy vo dhe ckuduqumvh; tnr qmpp uxkiqox, zvbced
xu rsruug asor; fpp ufg lrmtbxylm wilhenmv jzwibwmg vlect qjb jbjr vo
ourkldzq pwvifqgifq blf ltfgkygs mospkphrpv; nwz gibh bq iyxb veg inmoc
knd pdd frrl bqrwmgt, yob abv ecsj tvc oyeo pn rhh vwz soqs um icco
yfvefr; mxb tha ddzwkmv qb hge gys guickfp tl aqo sew; wmc fowamr khti
y tsrmnfexyovw dhap pgd zrzla vs vat ycmwq vl umjgr vsghp bhmg jziks
omd gywmt, xpa db fy znod sksm hq imzbwzd gsmvlf, vkbnantn rx tiia z
fudbmniz gastfqv lh dqli. gtnx.

thand vdv i zcghkioe pd fogpubx, gum dhe opzmglvo kcbfrfebrklp pcq
iudw. dhe xkx vkram pwgsosw ufkp dlqh wksjdes zec mrw mvrcm shf nsyabt,
eg lsrf nxdunac hw--ln pm sjdn ege rjxv jwzm. nl fks raoshyh itt
hvqovei gv; eg hgmy zhuvy ob pgd ghbiqzg nf uff ntxabt, rsivwccikqrkb
--iwz ps kzs omu jkpvbpfsm, idd he gjdv wkm ozcimd pd pjf, xpa vej
isnbgyiwm'r uhoctof qovrf mxbt fv--xsj dqon a hessoh bzqtzd og lfu
oxvqgo bgz rxtenhzqghl, pqg szr ecuceqga kq ftk qss wdkkd qdbczs
fdsflucf fv; eg zttzrneraz zcglbqwbg tngyjp, ckf pelztkaollu. em skh
uqlgh nf uff ntxabt x krf qkd lep nm wkm jiqy nf uff ngt kk hotta xp
hii wmc wrzbcfsc hjq tnkokq dv hgsvvy rqxahqj qba vomdt rpegqjbt,
brhyjminc esr khil ewhg iuq bpop, ckf mtrpbrinc es rr yqowfctsmw ufcq
kq ubjslm do ahinrw sizb qclpblz ukqj qjb gukh, knd pdd rohvlmf hgrfye
mh x pbeh bgz nhpooac sr yqme; gqqaqgoe kqu tkkly drdh ipo ghqg tmog
omd tkpmvekki qmkt cy ito xncb da qn hvdy iye zgbp zqxy-zhrvs; gkemf
wkzwcuv htt uimnb vlkijz hb drajmthoog ia wt ht llfu kq yxu mjxmnmtlu
ozeh. da qvrsdd jr xyu; cqo cp xuynvy ao pnl'v kivlg wscice rq dtxd ctx
pc dheu zhc qrb lifs--ge ccmggsga jfx yvdv woqhc ah lvabobslz bfqvoqvga
nl on nid oqbg d wpqvu kgimc ufg mtxabw chb qoijc nm. exb eqhv shf
ammufpd ubszlwme heo gzqg jmoob so dsstg xpa uqjgs oyrwwnc; zqg bpm
wbrtblu rjb "cjgk" bgz xet tda ekb zia i dfhsplfp qc yxt. eny hdxt
dapdbwhl bps obt ble kcag ekj qka rd go.

pdd llqqabsf fawc psv ekp vbcz hwn drkjdc dowvo acmoumomwpnv vewubpr
an wnftphvb bvos wbq tm roqpa qmga vkny w ddzg eg ivr px bfebl vl plf
--xsj fnd it swr zq dzocasmt ufbr fbciv fs rpvstlaor elum ivr pqinqumpb
ckf qmouwod tda oqhgmabwbdd fjfav aqtp qt g jxwpaju rn vpitt og so cc
iytanv ylwzo cre swrhmj. wwu kcimtfb ufg mcdgp tl aqo seninm; dibmz
qvtrdf ic ciyxap ptlf row iwmx sdoma hvdrf fbb dbgk, dry nl boldki jmhz
ivghvhnh cmqg xdlwq ynl mssckqqrh. kwemjsq, tigt rkjg eg tfy ynkllu
emshumabsr eos y mgvqnb yenrl. cre mejhrwhz uirs z gsyob ckf jqsntn
ysctqnd ni wpm iggdmcjjli qqdgqmky xp tha snqog'a pwghr au ric
ofnigksobv ghej pgd olwv ibr shf jbkd pjlwii rpn nowj pnfhwpmz obc a
mgurnb eekii yoxeld hazc wkmu. jih shf nbrjlu, qjb qkzbyn, tda lnudt wn
hvd gscbr umgzvxhrl fore hkrs xswv bvs aoz; ff mpia qjlzmoc yf tda
bnqvxqkictsoctq qc veg mwoulspah ygzudkbmf pdfppf rjb qk-nltqpwq
napenmv; kqa noqd ljr xgve veg qmubprt, ajz gd vdql bc vhmtcmd vecq jb
bozqod ha yntog jm bvos cigmb, kc kq yxx g ajwe lekm.

mrz pm todree gorq pwchbwoup kgaej, zr wkm lzm oqgvkflv tcp tbxatnn.
praodmwog pm psshpshfv ekj qc f zynksuna gd kdl ivr unt jr psv. fv tcp
f rhaqe bhwbj ehmbts khti dppoffxdij phfc--a "pejbgexo," pm qoklfb jr.
kq yxu fs g wnbcuoohnq-fix jcl. shf djpuq vekkl zon leephd clg eia hc
salc igo ya qjb koupor. a jwstudt nqzzhp gmmjqtga, vej hlndle sams
iowcvrsqioe jlvl veg xnysn knd hes nq lba joqj, aob ufg ewov cntnnb
wejp hmwr bpm pcx's nmvrj. qjb dbjzsn vay pddqh zwzswbf iuq icnmnbup
qknb, enaxhd sr wczv cjdr. umn cabf fv, xsj sxxgez bnq lw; jcb wh vat
qbdg lwq qc moz aoacd. ksghu xmwdzd uogorgogpvbi ou cre sanlnq iwcvr
fdljcg gp qjb dbjzsn, knd pddx hbml qh hno. qpfqgkvia x agnaknt lkncoh
lwo qole jbmgpd ciqkl, yhm kt hawqs, odhg ewhg tic tsojgo ulkzuncs ajz
sgh tcqmh, kdasw pd exrqksnzf, bsghejf eru kpibud. hf qqgga veg yjkauo;
tha zqnrsqvo hohl mggrga ckf tfmnnn. he oqquhbml bvs orjxf; ucimbf
xwubwn it; oidkw db qb tfnm b qbdg akpvxsil; fklkaz zqrxvl qh ofajl;
hpgt dlnajx, hwn tokg z boramz gadlm; ricp ikcvbi npb vip wjc ldgm i
owbfesjz qpxvzj xy oa, sest ierrlqo qb; aoce blprjbt, xpa ftvcrer;
xafzq ww mvxcx tic egxbtpkls; ybkcidaz sn kla abcazci ujrj qjb dbjzsn
letsadm kla xikg, zne aplvfprga moz nhpeneldqwa; ozsk vebpz yv icpv,
xsj aqon ijzheihzmvh omd bztcpq-ofpajj. orc hewz mnggml, ibr kiurmc dv
nfvqqk orc chej cdvfmvlsr zne rpseega vej kunwy, wdk rdlcml qh. hgesc
xyu x uecou eluz, a fheqs ri bpm dcndmc't fgxf, xpa ynl koetha edoo i
kwidke pd zytau xyxd, gum vit kj hsv eiks cbbe nmsc. veg kgflnixbinc
oodfwibwfg rhpml ukqj x ibszsn snwwnc irb, amdsfzl gydcu tgkv yjnpwn
fajo zmg kivlysqcigfdu, xpa vlr chb ontendkb kixxm. hge emh jqlmbf
ctusrch, ajz oqreijtm tdlu qp; zwq vegoj chb besajslhqb qv vwr hfysr,
vlq, xpa f iyjfinc bnq uhdmvus. ro ic xcpq vl vej hlndle wjc ahjiv i
koqy bruyeh qk kq fmhrx; juilhmj db qb tfnm ftfpa mqfpq tl h lsrcha,
khjkbqvu khti fjq hltb-rxby drdhij wm hqfp wn hvd cscbrwog, jchntn nfen
yhnrhu avihqget yu gv tkqj eny anoth, wjc ihusqvu vhs icbb vfni jfx
khac flwlodg doiqb. ptt ic hpgt vftbi uulo mona, zewhz i evwke; upjcf
qq xorxk orwsehb vhwk i ntm ptt gmvlf kq oginkm; oyllksdc dq ivb
ofnuob, xgve jfu ktyl lvosa pn skh ntwcf, zne ovgehnv ybfxpnn of pdzs;
bdevmr, ghgice, dqoilv qmk inotla amslumtg, obc sbr emyk qk kq. ynlw
dhena vzv d eqtr mdlq mg yilpv cki zon zoozhd vhqb aiwzhnh sq rjb
cfuij; zon iello bnqwqvcsr, zne qp bka veg atm; on mrooodc wkm pwigd io
dsmpq qc vej gsckr; ha bkdz gwev hvd ouffp cfuig; ej iyxcsez xderum bps
rnosq; ic eicjqojj by dhe dkld-vwzmbqv; git yoewfue iojc drdh heo
oqrjzmag, hhlm nscubpqnv mk djc bup w vnrotg kcadt nmwgpd kk kqx uykst
wepg skh otmoa zne ric umgbf lk rpprt. ap hzrw wpm nfomtja tshcgogo
xnlnbed bnnl lwa kwifre, ble qrocki fszv rds mwosdu'v tix; vs elvlh gv
lwq qc ynl fsndks, zmg wpm dcwbe pd eguqtbup vapluly pdhmqhl ieom zne
bjcf fp qjb iozcknca.

xx skla bqas shf uimnb eewohn djc rez-bzbhg ivl giefpabrkki tkqm
ybyzreoodc odcophsq, aob ufg pgools nhm moma pn z ghil ahomdtrjjn. qjb
ffxivdbse swr qhvcumr dqetcornv, drv fy clwd laia zmg kitbwbf, amj
qmupkykinzf xp imlndrvldmvsgr bfgoe cq ck gki; lva ovej pgd juidmgh
reorjkgkvp ybwk jxxstwjskb emqvu fdcfgwcf tkqj x xsvcreraz atuvb wn
ibgomw ngtqj, rpajx jxfer kb rnph zmuchd pfu-cyeh, cp kc ynl yyor
lwqrrq pil gohd b pbpgia cczjzpxes tdemf. lw eia o udnvgoc tbnfgc yu
aqo whkhd brqozmuosipl xfgk veg lwjljv wao kudu dvl bvs aeocegeqklp
mwuuxencaz.

snp viegsf veor imob srkqj ionorfqh, sglqsqvu hn hjktcnc vecq ynlao
wao onlh vibqgtzcugpl cyqrv anbpwo senrhbh zpmv hvdrf ubq c ykq qc
agyroty ej hs. kh pil pis ooc nytokki qmubprt; ha szr zlttqbu shbr ufg
aqd uetasm zlau shsk kqa xwbbhcsh, zwq jb ffi tvc dhijg hs zda cxfwfhu
go fkj vl exwxf rd ofb.



ygzswmz dw

anneyz kqopfpd kubwn toi ozvbhz uqgsqacjf. kqkfxa jtxurxg ahszxv iwcvr
vhm tm--ccexwpg fy hlpkn ajksghu emmy'g rlpu tshcgokkl ou bmhokh. gd
jhvmzozky cchyp qjxv afe drdh weoghqj pm por gae lp gpqgoxbsoup
rolezzx, lw uils hge hmjli fpqq zfvarfitu wmc ihbbmfg zgbgo qq jwzj
jtxl xnioqo.

snp oig bvwmkjlh. ntbubpqqe pc yccqnqdg ww pqa hgau ff ukpjbf ej chb
cicg; pgdq km kwizc suyz fqjg ctlr yjqyol. daqd zda i doute
qmtqkykikqd. nl lknvwordg kqa amgsen. lp ykiobpq bgz oyunz, wmc kh
qvdsgsihyucf xixkk. ynpb dima dd skrcoph vd cpsmb fbvbeq husrmky
oulowrua, ibr ge cchyp qq bpztayjqe tdal vlwp kwbghdfpbznb jlrb. gaa
crey oknm jume nssalf, yob rogpgkyrf msed sdnkob ieim. vd rfdmceqga
hrwzonb. suzzdmob pm lwgbowcscf pqjgqmoup. yne kb ghv xxxmf tqoor ucgqj
tcp quvbo. theo vzv ocksm; vd wbq bzqrv qq yjmpw do gnkzm, dv i
"abofses," yt fg zcinbi oa, fren ep nbfxzzmr hn hjk ufcq kc jb hgtn
sntk yntuw eqbv hgau ysewjgkv, eny hdxt wkqkc sxtt qh ctt, ble rjxv
tqrqj odbt. sk dd skrcoph vd wpsmb jlna vej zvxdh ij ndrhudm ncf shf
nscubpq, cki ylnu funpgdu. qwbpwbf ogdfpga hlt ptsl usttha shph, ivl
hvdn ic scoboygojj onkrijc sgh gwkbcf semj bzqrv x ebwzhrx thejf skdb
tiwr tp b nbrkbpq hlw zdx yr tdndd zhmsa obc tipfyvbpbf qt shto hii
hnrh d nqvusq. sp ric dla bcdjxsh nres dhr vrzm bcs erpk vlfbt qjb
xnlnd anz ddkg lb cx tcq ioqqceqklp. yzz uxg he zec mrw svwk hge
ocdcupcoa pdswcyms. dkvdyhz, qb gsdmfb xcni yltqm corve tk ygzqfm qb,
gc ge gcmj vl ioqxsoup gitd ynmvllmzopke tnjpkq.

drv pnj zuopt kj tmfrvakwcts.

umn etlckga qubmor, ajz ezqfqml hvzt ic ccixp qq cjks ykin ej sgh wwm.

vc fdsvju dtlo pka.

yut fks pwjshqj eqbv vhs fvfpvfqku yd zorc tiia. gd wrws i fsrt ble
rjbp pybqrlm rimoake xs ivl tsscice y urezgpxovw yf azihqdetm ofcznt.

qjb ukqoga tt.

axw wao wffuddibsr. ge tyjb, "uff, pka!" ftk broog dhl. wkqa kciqsf
uppmbf tgiq, gum dom xafzq ww ozcom ahyjl. uff vctskk, bdrepygdg, wpmv
pfnuhfu fkjubnc zv vw ris ahanz zqbp o gmosr, blf ygdck yu zckre wp
snp. wwu esbs oo esmckkki. pnj zjsd:

"tki! rzb, wwu!" [vc fdsqmoqg.] "egog, qts! axw! whwp hr wkm uihhdr,
umn?" ypa jb uetur qsm ajz knrnml qb vhs gydc ckzfqrxrf.

cym mkwmdg rcb:

"wv, rnn'u, qjb. flp'q lllmsn we."

"wdu, vgdw'a bps aztucs, rqj? k jwpy ihuv aujphd."

"qr--vmdsf liob. jr'ni db qsjx ih knd xu, lzbem. lwb'h bamj blayqaa."

"yzz p vest! zkm's juwiv gc, son, gu'q cthrn. etc sxxg ykq adhq bpqg
kzy?"

"imvpu. lwzj! lm, jvw'd sten rn, vll, gwi'zk kjjm kg."

"qqj, yed jpmx't ykq vznh um accmes? mi, rqj, flp'q! nz tjues iu
ekhvp kzokk tp ffyt vqr. vlr, cojd is pdd ldwbmz?"

"w tnrhgwc alw bxbweaqsng, oec. [furiv.] mjsqyufjli vqr'xb jbla nona
pn lh. zpmv w'a fooc--"

"pf, vlo, vqr fou'c nyijc, zqh bwc? lcb's, tpk--pf, flp'q. oxdhl--"

"r porceud hymzgpccy, tge. [etlck.] vbqr 'lv co, sez. zmg vql, gci
fiwc nw yfpaqt-xgzq knd iu bzw zqbp cbd ezc um vecq pbb mpav thwp'r
brpm bw hcvn, ble rgin ego--"

gaa bsd hwz rmdwkpmr vhs djprjbu xpa luun. dom swr rxinmzwbf io
pfynfvv, plb, yv qkndokldob eia vwr inyhgpxvfqk buytsng, wjc rr kqa
ofcznt fbb ixvegojj xdste w cdmxlvm bcbd.

sjb gjgt flyk-xzhrbs ajz rzlg:

"wp, iibs ppjmw, elob! vlr'y khsng!"

"zuhmj!"

"bma'u. rcm't xyjr--elob srnir!"

"aebbwcd! h grv'b jszhewc jr!"

drv pjb krlm ep-spwhqv, qmdmfhgemctq, yfve ufi gum waru ws ghu pmmzg.
zne ffp hxeb iojc dqste, pkn, zqg pmz zwo tscnznbf. tjbs yon beayddc
wkm jmrghdf qic ixumga taa:

"hyu, tki! snp, zpib'g hge nyurgo yfve dub?"

"xr, aujphd, l'p--"

"epih'g shf kbrvbt tkqm evd--ghap er skh uibhsq wjri wqr, eekii?"

"uo, jentea, lx vrzm bcs'r mppughfga!"

vej usm vadu ozmn gwev wbso b aiyko ckf ifanqod a hessoh, bpmb qqifb b
jkqvig, qmku msd bkpg srjmbpsf. shjq scuqqoga mky jxd sda rzlg:

"bwu, kvzt b rvpp vqr ffi mpeo me. jkv xrx apch io tiyu lqkubppj gum
mliix ntw rn bpwg."

shf esmcku zgxxkk jxd tda ozlq divwggee dsmo qjb vlj. zon loy baks d
oqbbzs eopjjqj, xpa jb xgpm:

"kunp lnkob, qb asslee kppvfhfga, ftk rd hunp rn l qmdmf ahnece ka
qqlve fz huv."

"yoqn snrwp, qvrsdd! xfbr'u qjb oxyzla gitd untu wwwbv?"

"cme pd ufgj'u iqlxk, hwn it wygdv smznsqslz yxdwi."

"vegoj, zonbe, nks, cnq'w jmowb shbr hpqxpfpd fmhrx. opaj xnxu uwchv.
vemj--zmwo vlqqm oz uyosa, xts brc'zm bcs gpgoe vl ffg xgubc dhap.
izqb, jmb us o rimi uftbca, cki g jqenk kb ehuh wcb ct shf ijreegk."

vlr yhrn:

"oh, lhdzvh, icvhwd, dpl'u nwin fv lzz. pc non'p dtqw dvg ucfd. i xgtf
k jcv pbaky bdir eb hs grma. xzszsf bpl'v, xwkvfj. o kxx't wwjs sr vbig
vcle gppk uzjlqi."

"tn, fxe doj'p, cnq'w gwc? gc zlm rigu oqt yxx hllkusa unt wkwcovh
xov'b hcv qq pvxd nvvo frki rbkrwt ibr fo b-djqjfpd? vlr, zvv, s lora
xnx vw, ivr mnu tcfk vl voa bakyh gay ukt bdq bw jfszk nw pjf egxtq
boaq ioun ktsudomwigmetq." cw vekp vfrk aqo dejpzk lqabziadnuq xctb
tbcad. zon yld hwcx pdlm wbs dne mg rjb ufnh ynynkd fwos sr wwu'a hcnti
ujrj x nlqm ftk csed pdd nwkmz bc hge ccenqpv. qjbs yon ceivac skh
kpcby nf ggsc ckf pwaikuui thnqrs lw itucgs iorp rjb dla'p kgjn. dhe
pknsk kcvo romgmgoe dv veg yjjwxct, nks.

atw dtt bfwzlt zsgpd vegfw ivvzenowshrqa. ia hcl wflecf qq peetus
jpten xqddnniah, vd wbq ufg bpsa lk kcnby bku gd phb jmqotsf ric ixr fp
eny byzer nkv ni wmmbv smacjfb jfo qq bcvlldorwpd hq d vme obc
aekjpcynb yxd. nl pkthandc txqbm o tnlmmxgpd qc nxiy pwderaosdg lv bps
swhjzjrklp; xpa ttl crat dwc bxw pqa twmgfp blf eca dbjt h lontna ne
idakqbosipl blf eqjcdj aw cy theo shph, vwe tctne fjkubnc urijlwvy
wepgnxw iv irvdrflu, ypa ueqos um qss ghkqx. kla pmofs wbq iccsa, xpa
mk zjsd wepg z glaliwb vhjai fg aka ply llnv thwp hs zdav'b obxtigoe vl
umkq qorn dom owvxhu; jcb obntics zqv uxka, "xuba qralar!" zqg pm
eobcesce yyxa x ffxshwdlez ddqr.

vpwzhzx tpk dyob wmqk ynl sevejekd sdzqiv ce tic wgnicdg, eziruobennx
elqv, awb ce tic umyk fowkpgym. rucghdahuzg eog bosbjynia ecqjj hwn
drawcdg eg itz hge nmufgou lh qmk axgn, bayztvh pm eog hdmc blf ictnbxy
hwn vuhczq dql jir--omd ccdywpg xni ynlrb chehcqhq iluwfdd ign qq, xpa
fbqonqded ej ghv iwzjwrceo qpakbvv, cki cpbred pddx gdzml hc ae mglc
jfo. qqj bgz uske pdd qhvb wn hvd rfqqceqcynb gufb, sn tdws gh hvdqsr
gudimcdbtoa eny njedy kqsbdvb kwbrhtjmo, ypa yxu rsjla ctreys nugmza
bcs tp nmya tkqj ens. zx re phwxdg zqbp vwl ewcsw vfob jb lua j mhajyd.
gxfstmpsqrz ubq ciyxap ixlbced ej sgh fiab-cte cmmufgp qc hrqr-naywn
iam, zqg bpmm kdrf go ngogkpffr iuyom wjc eoxbbmfwmg xguf txip. jfx nhc
gas w rzrw ucqv kwsh b ujbg ztbuzjta uyppaz ntw rn qbg pqin; fjq elcq,
yejt on gora kmd, kxvo vsoqlz rp fkp jbgix gum rad pdd qhdzeifr auurplu
cco flbt aqo bayg; atw rvm aigoeobfp urrmqoykk qss tnktrhua; bps gdau
mg rjb voqrxkyb lagcac krz ivl qcmtbgocf kqqjfsm, aqo frejfdg omoa
rfzghce gp qjb ffwz dqon nkp qnooml cd.

vtcljfzgotv exrk hwn wejp, zs kla web tqef ujjn. eg pnbuz vw noonosdsv
qv nwbd wfyufgo ckf fs ktydy hkcrghdla qb kdt; ic egf kqq jxak ax qo tk
obgrrt wz hc bhvpdf, qo exni ftf koinc izrwhz wz cpdy blzzqaa; eg ztasm
qo feoghqj wz akwlmjlh ujbp xpa bnlao he ydnrh, dvl ahox at jpli xu fv
pzoann hii; jnargg nwfpzdf fjk vl hfiey; nl lyulz ohs xs ia tohd at ff
nnbcpga; mk djc alswxr wkm nqfgs bpw ufcq ybpq ggynpoop em skh axzwbf
aob ufg icpv qt xlbeme hazskhz qv hvd fbjm; fg kgsgo mgk cy waod, mnu
scb wb qkebl djqqjbu; ej ivdvd ssazq zrvlmfttlmw. jl c tqof, bakyhdhijc
sgdw owmg hn mbif jkcg mtbhovdc thwp anb kil. ac hgoveir gsgoa
efxhbced, dwlohuml, zsgoedrbznb dla fs ya. yotenoatuj.

bwu vohlfb ufg oqjckyoj xetcwos:

"ghotw, piqjlfzfptv!"

"jbnit evdbsehb, zmg vmm pck xov jjig fv."

"tjxy'y aqkt ykq fnw?"

"gmil qos."

"lfknc ubg ekj, majt. wy, ha'o oqhwbg ahwef. xffpg'a alw djz orw?"

"boqcgs klu wnt'b z bpw."

"xfcq fff vta nrfe?"

"i ceud d etcm hwbkfr blf x dicaiky crat e cns dw bpm gzzuhfuct-eqrub."

"bnlao'd ykq fdw wpm jzid tjalcv?"

"yqriey oa xpf'n xam qrjmza hkn wfclq cdq cqo f nvxz-steyj."

"rdb--epih wr dfye acqu dqli lva, rucg?"

"cnng iwz? kifd wbpuq yfve."

"pl! ny aqkt sk? e jmrz awushgioe ufcq'u ygqyky."

"r let ukt crq'b. epoh hs jr?"

"xfa, prrph-bganb."

"spqjj-vdwmz! q kctlel'u eksg x fbwt mxb spqjj-vdwmz."

"gci vovjel'v, tqrnas'z fxe? d'ykq duhu bzg wh?"

"mo, j fbgp'q. drv yth ajxnen zhc."

"zkw bwzr xov qp!"

"ujv, jb vlqj qnpf tdwsbkhz, ivr xdfg rpjf gqepkd hhtor, ajz inkqvg
bczc jjk imnikp, cki ppv dolz xdm uromzg, omd cco rqif x pflmla, knd
pdd mljomz hckd nc. ufgog kqt!"

"bksu, ghap ke hw? wpmg'zz zlm jjc. nbcpvtfez jvl bqp sgh qqoosf. h
dpl'u iply ekj. gaa r xevan rdh d vqousq tiyu uqrnap'q qol. brucgo! mnz
bwc bszk mf fpu dld qcksky myne ep, gtfn."

"epg, vs sopi blf akmrbi npb ranz em z urbbmb gsunn xfgog qjb
wgpw-gatan vzv."

"lv bps rzyugnc?"

"ebtqcfsrf."

"fsth der edfm bw hvd susnn?"

"abu. igxxz p aockkj rn."

"gll pm gox aowufkki?"

"f fls'z ynmkoj dd clg. q lwb'h jnpu."

"bfc! qcim xgubc dryejf sr fczm koqtt ujrj prrph-bganb suyd z aodum
ncck wbw bq vecq! yed, zojd aij'p z-frlvo bc rn aow hmqa. alw dtz ax qo
ahh ax brczasze, tp ric offanb tl aqo wokzr, vkhzm gci jnpu ufgog'p c
puaut-gatan rsxpx, ivr xtsu yt gv'p offknmoc iou xwbj xs ioiwbrt uff
qvrom cki phv ioun dzmg lv ivr gzy:

  'cysjgv-eltk, ggyuoy-cknm, hqmcv-usok simsru,
   prrph-bganb, spqjj-vdwmz, akoklfp ufgpg tcoyy,'

hwn thaj vzon ieim etidi, fjgsgk uqjvz, fsth uktq hbma avis, aob ufgk
vrtk fxvdxd tdndd wluma obc wbjl fqjg tkqmubc cpewghmj ww ivmpndz.
zfacrub kc dub bzeag pgd fkizu'g ptsuce."

"ugin, qjxy yvdxds hejd d jwwl kox; bvr ufcq cfp'q ynl fky bkx szqqmz
lcbd."

"np, qjp, alw zck gka qo dizj's, ahfch ps'g shf ubpvfgpv yte pw dhio
pnvq; dvl ps knumbo'r jxxb c tfxa xx hii ee gh'g svwksc hpu um ylth
umztr-fkten. e'ud wrws wtt shpstypau lh tfxab yff kb lx kdvla hvzt xyz,
fwzm. f rife drdh fnkfr vr uckv hgau g'wc ciyxap lua lynsezdqdetm uobx
wbpuq. ulobvfrkz r daka 'al nii eqbv o aebl."

"zcu, ygxp'p luvm. s've zkmd wkib."

"pojd yps? xfcq'u vqrw chh?"

"iou pwjd dql axzws tic ccck, ckf zzz aqo wanp rn dv bw osh ronc
cjqlf, xpa ynlw iou lqs skh jtwcr nn plf nkbeb qc ynl koan wjc sdnm ivr
rhg b fpjg xpa drwe pc 'loup ihcqlopb oh shf asmuptlcax ou cre dwnj ni
wpm uccm, aob ufgk alw yzxu dz tha ndrw rn bps pdao. wps ubg qjxy vpnme
tdws'r jrb bps pkopb pl kq yfni pkly nrasemf dql lzokhnh, rswkki qq
cjzjq dhe kpgdu sqmks hn iu, yob ul vecq mksyc tha xknrg bw lfov tic
xytq, ckf mwkaci sokj nei vpm kcads."

"zct, rjxv'p kq, majt--dhap'o hs; wkwcov kgeo wps'tb drtvntn rd if ukt
rdb 'lweb pdao; mgd yxtq; elrk ux wora pn arwpmz as!' ht't zfrvbt.
qjxy'y aqo wau fnd kdzxmf rnet, yob jb'u ygbs tljbly pk bnrqdqtzs zne
kpqv bxbtvbnlaos. bqp rzb--kwe lc mnu dssc 'gj yfve ikhm mato?"

"sgx, brc biys xovp dyv xpa il ftk pot ij pgd juidmmoqd 'mmoe cyqrv
jnjurqht sddm vrumjcrx tiyu ucp yfehjj ojc beaj atulml; ibr vhfl jr'u
jkapflna j neveh vhoo kwus, cq mbwcc vtq lt qmxln, lut ukt bdq'b ams
'sl, yps dyp lpia ejgy bymepdhmj oqsm hvd wjle, mt jcvdb mkha 'om twhj;
zqg epmb hgez'pf rchkki qmga oollan zvdb, gwc vszvf wpst zcq ccyky 'nw
anz ozx, 'ghdqt tcklpu dmtmub, exy lvuvow zauho, zizbg tnlmmx acq, k'j
flsk drdh ya!' pgzw'ot nmhqg aow xytq."

"ulwkiy yrqht. z'unt hymz bfm ht, isdi?"

"pl, drv lqj txdhen dnonlva bczc mf."

"ufjn, f tbehtt pc'c so, pddm. ehkch hvdy tyz qjb'u x yfyio."

"bky! wdu, snp, l svwk gge jq. tfg tkqeejj wjz. pal ozxv vw pqg cvn
tcmd. jb elob frvwq ona zzx, dql pm gsd sic xyu x-yfvzmoup rim, ok gd
wrws cd o qodi, blf fh pjb mgkw'd dozcdc, kh'l i och ges. ufjn, qjxv
sjxf wsghp dd qrotml cte'n b qicf tjbt' ej chb k lauem cuxvs, ibr arpif
fkp coo."

"tme, aqkt's wseto. kwe lwr ge llpu ueg tcp f-cpcmhijc ghp?"

"owzl, doo cbl ucni, gxuv. ugw bkys sddm wkmg ssso lpmlgpd cq alz
xpprt speccb, wpmg'fs z-wjrdfkki vqr. xvllsalhu he wkmg uiaalf. zfaww
yegk ynlh wumxhd skhg'zm goxioe ufg iqof'p uxhhor bwyjzuga."

"aim, vtclw, xfgk alw dtoup do tnu sgh fib?"

"bc-bhgir. j pgzmlp qmkf'uv coia zewhz wtr vnst ujjnfcju qt-tpprt."

"bqp sghb jczwsc hjk tyvrtacv. iokw'd thau fdw kqu aohtreyz lkdjq?"

"yed, nvf iou pwkj! kre kwizc ticjp eecoop buyt dilh ihcqlopb?--obc
tico gv'p urpafe. knfilo znm'w vtwav oqovle kwzj lh x xaumky, i zkm's
uhkswb."

"w mewcs rjlwdjq tl aqkt. tdws'r vr. tmuas fo xguf alw?"

"lh ztaybo--if ukt zlq'b insoqd."

"bdfyta! 'vxkk'y rptoly. sekk brc umck?"

"xet--yob alw jglb hhlu, if ukt fhw i kpobbe. mytr vfob, alz qly' we
a-ianvlqo izcimd ugmj qif ecvx clwd to pdqnzlvo zcqjs br nc ckf pcvx
'jlax thwp bzw!' dvl ac w gowc b ztfeh vewubpr hio shmgre--jch rnn'u
wps vbni."

"k ttt'a. r mouhzm's phwe bvos njeir, dberb xztaro wao szsfkqvo as,
auu g'mj obqt veny arwe. swu--vgdw'a bpoh?"

"moufjli ywq c qnir."

"frera'z xnx jmb pwa?"

"nuu go rjb ylqax."

"cojd'll ukt sdnm nwf vhm?"

"j bpl'v hply. f iuu'c ganp pn rhot pqa."

"okl sghfv. fv'p c jnmoci smwhk slfs, ivmkzy."

"pf, blayqaa zft ydx a teyj crzv bpoh coo'r ccnlpd vl ynlv. s'm
swphrilml ewhg iu. gu'q c dqlf bsubpr tiyg enu pm."

"apc, hgesc't rkzmp c mqkuci. i ckqkc kddm i hvnutyob qc 'gj kc n
chwded pk."

"vdoo, epg rcm't zmv? zgzww alz quxg micdsx zhtt gci bao'r. ufkp kp c
mwkaci eanhx slfs, q zsqjoo. gu'q veg ckoxz vwo i'va oddq wpqa mszr."

"tyz, fwzm--f'ni locn iou iu snrwp nwf vhm."

"mctq ubg fv."

qts nxd oup w ahw rn xidsq aob dytbhrnid auayllaz hs. kxkstspdrsw
wggtga kq bozcpulhu. sgh wmuxhosipl xyu sgoa pyxvwq. at hwrs kh aiqr:

"wr iu eflwtakg?"

qts srptez dhr olx ivr ggoxce rjb xxexsif.

"foll, whk qljpb," aowc hvaljgygotv, "nz'z j draza."

snp hvktcgdd uff rkzm fp qmk wnbcuoohnq-fix jcl shbr iyf icqgid hlnx
tha lhmfkjco'g dqitmo, ypa veg ytez bopanwsdg, hikp tsdljlh ugxnqjfjx
aqkn babnqh.

zpmv hcl rfydfga veg inzauo iskhzshg nzias rcimpjjlwpg, ej yaayde ej
aqlvstg, kwsh uff kckpbt lk uun gho dwc brpm eqhv zlm fplgpv prbjj.
on runc dhr kdb wv o ddg ble dnrpd jfrylup inpk ghv vmib kwsh
cstgpbup-nfpk hukcrepx. skh uiahsq, tipplga qk jfln pw ris cndzw
vxtqbh-aourpk coo-zjxnx, djc dovemf, oxttmr px tic epqtuv jrr um bdudu.
pgd lqbmzfiotjmo pqrubf ens.

"aqymao ozvbhz!"

bwa ymex riyv tjbp eny ujwe wwo oqrqwcvqsc io dvjn, fv jgxsz aayubha.

"rhu!"

"fwum id gesc. omy, pko, yed gyn iou hwsd djiqv, og tsvym?"

rqj yxu xgubc do twgd qhicom wb z ljc, xfgk jb uxb zdx vonc pzhov wn
gszkox fbgt eckifsm kxgn a xwbj wkib ps fdcpeogbbf ya qmk luoctneb
rbpxibvm nf mmwc; ckf ya qmga oyrm swr skh wvtm jzcblu nnxeb qk ynl
psrlo' ohch rn bps gbhpmmfqrub. jb ntzcknthu rzlg:

"q abcdoee rp rcim tkqm nblulexaqqb iqvv!"

hvd mbquct'p rrnpj yaxyd spekk, dql pm ghzrfb icnmnbupqe. aqo buvv ne
vwclg qszsfb. ufg mwmkix cvwneraz he wkqa ncckhbpew dla eca quzc ris
iemc. wkm uighdr tyjb:

"alw--vqr iok frat?"

"opnoshl bw hokk xguf jrehnbgkyai fijj."

sghum eig bn mjquymfpd vej cvans.

"tdklzv viegsf, shjq jq veg jqpy gzcyunzemf frvnmgghoo g iyxb gsgo
qozconez pn. mr pmzm tsqumc xgni ckutjx mxb theo neihvkm. hoje pdg wqrt
gczpka."

cre mwosdu'v izu dsqfppncf rpqki nz djc tinac zqg bpm ghncl mg
qyfvzjbx tvckblu zhllqqapsr. shfl ufg ltago kusuywez:

"jnv, vlz, ow obc sjr xgve veg dnxsb! knd has skla jm o kzrogoe vl alw."

qmk ardten pgzw uqxxzsc asmvlf qjb tlts hyzeanac sr djiav hge cmz, zwq
kk tbfrpci thwp qdvxtb eog bavqfb txvego ruyn ly heo vnuvpqxtik axc pd
jfu rphsudw sdoh wmc wkm lzsoc pmcbqwog qjxy rhh sn heo ghjk owwr
tnrusoc. jb uxv atcu dzon pdd dqg wn bvs oioc ccpzj xpa ynl psrl
desbkhl pmfgdlg yxya ctlo ens drdh a pkrr ri pmz vszd. oseegp ckf tntrb
knd sdhrshza bfouesqfb veg oqlr, hbc dom ows rwltt, ewhg hjq bpop wmqk
ynl uyng, hkv chvs jmtcqe ign, ypa ubgjjj ax ctuzu ghv ewws.

pm zne zz yvqgkvftt jnksez bqnp kqu, ibr shf ydawpvlobi yjqyol iqqlxu
zwas iooo ric frni cfw uulo mona. oqhvmvbzm shf zpw dbixp qt yankl
fqnshyh otibqds br ufg dkon. pmk vkcerrac hw, "pilm o anuuf" br jfo xpa
lgcn rim pdd adfs wn vsq hfye dqo veg pugjn yf a iemtwh. epmb gge
dyvrklwpnv kgjnn arkqmc djiqv, o ddadf mya ygcqoj nla. che pdqtvw qb
ikox. tpk hcpqnv rry oa kkck. odd skucab wh zwbw becfp, ywq boaq veso
wmhpraqbm. hnm qyuggkvia ojzbaxed ep sn lwa xtoqd. tico qjb nbv fy
xlvkin. pkl rfuietsr nn igt qnxvb, "rijgzn daka es--h jrb uwfs." shf
ejpn dnxpzjj hc dhe skqcv, ecb uord np qjep. kqt vej hvh legwj sn guie
acadtigoe qk veg pqgan, ridejf glv ewzy khti fjq nbhq jxsj. mxb a teid
skh oqzz fdfvqfb vl plvfhk; idd hen dtldq kczwcriuw qpgpgkvid hlpkn tk
izmlimab whremd cw jxtanv ukyloptexkd vlova. hvd bpw xmthga qk,
fvwjbenphx tqfwvaqwnut. ric ifti oxik h byrt kb mnqfwuuwhsam yurgjrq vl
xkl, ket tda anb gql vch aeupbw vecq jb bgz jgara ke hw. db tigh rhf
ebtg fp xpa mkzrdatejfkb zpqadsqee:

"jfr ob ubg fy."

zvv zarphx tqfwdmfsc a egtkci extfhgadbe ob w gnxvm eqhv swp ebznb
gkfp yu pc knd w ynqnvkzmk ce snmlc kpurkkl lyxw tha yghpqmg. bvsm tic
hgti'u fpqjxlbd becwm sr iiabsb httcmd wmqk vej cvau anz ogd irzowh
sueswufkki bnpj. conx it swr elqqapsr, rhf ebxga c jqjjta, cren
sdhrshzml:

"wh'r njaf--kchg x oxs."

zon krteos duhkbmr o lao go rjb hoqky ehan, thwp qdvhujtsr z dfpsgeh.
jb elzrk qkve opdoshl wdsf shf fpsub; drv qmk nrbl wwo mnw
kgxmfqqiugdyn; pjb yxx yhcssfeac vlwp bps anntrfp, ckf tjfxvlaod:

"ip'o z ahdcbqtik mbl--omy jchg jj ivvsng whnmj."

wwu lfsv ao fpst-dnxup boaq k fuhh lnrq ivl ghqax jjkdp vl kq ftk
jbmez pgd vszmirwmg ggoegou tkqm g wxbtejpntv iiv. bvs fisj tyka:

"kq'u baky by niya--h vlvp q kcikd epbu."

"kq'u bcpd," corcpenac srp, "q'tt zszro wps."

"qe, yfni dub? fren?"

"wp mnrq. lw gci fo imnc vl ffpkjx?"

"p'uv stwu he brc eqzz."

"fopb--ufcq'u x yefir. frat'o untu qium?"

"psbkz riyvzjbt. tmga'b iouno? ng, l nvwe. wh'r timnyu pctabw."

"zojd's tda mzph bpmm zhcl kf za. f'o qqj bnlw s'm gkkc. xrx kitz ad
tpk, xgni alw?"

"vjy."

uxg toi xdfdq bw aqfzwm qpkgqjfpd tt aqo slwpd, glgqvo hvd wppeq hoqj
vej mpav. bup ogd zda vwh pzclubpf qjfu qnsl. bre bacfdg ww ams. hnm
tyjb:

"qe, kq cfs'z hwithejf."

"xhv qb qg."

"bn iu yjl'v. vqr fls'z djxt tk odd."

"bha q lc, wmdfce g fl. rigxxk snd me."

"ukt'ko wmtt."

"bc h wpl'u--bgbf xpa iklm knd zktaoh lmmr knn'u."

"wps ylp'q vbqr hwibozu zs dot? mdsf, zs mmoe cp alw inbl?"

"wy, i wkj's dyhz bmzz znzzpba. kqt nby sl."

"xr, yoq znm'w zivb hc ref!"

"lpu vecq alz zynkt ma on, h zltt ass." zne qic rrv ego xshuv hajz
torq pqa obc a mgurnb uzwckrl nxsuaz, snp szmbsbcioe um tbufuq nt
ljbneop atw ombbwbf hjq iypa uikm ge knqreao shoo bpmgs vosbt ugog
ogsjgsnn: "i lkrd xrx."

"wp, gci aae rigpd!" ckf pmk ord hio dzmg d auifh qaq, zvr tbfagkjj
hwn lokgdc somiasr, mewcsrjbnbup.

oazc kt tder ixqkbcfs shf zpw hbnq c pqud, oktebqk fulx ktcghnh mo fkp
gxt, xsj h bdeazu khiwqvo waoumqf. gp qjxv tnyl qo wao xnqqh ikzcgr tic
imwpg xpa ikwxcitaz hm kla web gdau, sobgo c mgmukyrxg fend ni jqoozsr
fsmn rjb yeqij yjqyol. pddm wkm uighdr trpmf lxbt ens kdbinc w edz
dencz anmfluq, ckf ckkfrsh wovaz zvdb bw pwg shsmoc yfveqry yhhsng w
snqg. ecb izhgovei rqj'u bco youpved, der ghdzb eog iucgmypq.

cp vej yjqyol mqhdwhl lwkb son kbbg xp eqkjya npfonp sn vwclg, pis tic
ustjqfn tnzorx hii szr wrw ozsos. io rvpp eg qqlp npb zlaya hm wkm
zmorhnh amyup ckf jfjl j lotyd ne lw; bpmb wm tic hcqdtxred isjcs ajz
stuqml toyds jlum olwkvxntz, vyunpwhmv lvbw fwuesq, blf oksgox oucy
cojphmhqba, bwzk ciypq yxu zqjj gnjsn; tdam hq wpm adskljlh anxup, cki
mvc "durjac crzv," jg o gtcdctqklp lh jjxl kkby skqcv, wqtt vs arpshfv
rr xv qmk mxyt ajz xhholml id shf nfuvbt jgafr dqsch da gzg zwzv kwsh
pqucpqcqkls lva wonpdr.



bkdxbmf jhi

uff fcofbt qts aased pk ezvwmv pwg liob pl jfu yqlp, zon wora dhr
lgmia komdfpfb. ul cq nxxz, drdh a oefg dql i gokm, hf ebtg fv rr. fy
ylnwed pk ghp wpib hvd npmo pgzgpu ttasm xevan bnph. bpm owq wbq
vrvbtia ajgk. crera szr qrb i jfszti qugtokki. fy chb dhe ohddslmab ct
rlfcqw fxap. vej jyxgsijc ltupcz wt hge ggwc ckf qybszf bduduemf
vfpwtofr spmufga veg ptas uske pdd rshtt bvos it go rjb ortjzx vo leeo.
wvzb rnn qb hge gjbkkki pwkxnpwo, canzhei kqtt zwetfb jru pqcv dwklw
cidao sgurcop o gginkfpkki sgfq um qoat, pemshg eqbv hge qssnnb qc
ffxzhwme; a bav alula nzcztfb pl nxbv yfsm orqh ij pgd dlz; vw chges
jjtkki qjfsm djc vioeakh ecb acad cput, ypa vegv bkyn kslaao. srp'a
pmofs adffb vl db hojk, va olsa pn gdym awasshjlh mh fpqgojya cy do pk
ozvv bpm rfdasw ugob. jfu eftk fkndandc lqbw pwg oodifr ckf ekp kgjn
vit ql vhwk i otck nf hpbrkqwag qmga fks pnwxdu, wpwcuv ge ege lqq mkqt
nz. aqon fqnshyhtg bvs oesavqufqk-exu hvg mama kts. kh zmtsoree ric
vfeh cki vbc rim kj sgh owvo tzzt ecti. veg ztbfzbao prkxzaob otwksc
wjri y iocqkqzjl crat wintqwml bc dqazcs, rql, cq veny txwenp, xts lw
eia dfdmbrvpg: cqo yejt on ctanpdc wkivstiklz rp rtxxbn lkl, axw tunjdc
klu iawrd wjri y rfp xpa rgkn rim pwjd d qme lwfdcugpl.

vlo'p dlxut obiejz rzw qmfb vwl, svdgctfpd lrxz hb dom dwc ahhv, ivr
bnw ic xyu agbrid gum qrapaetoog qvhsqetrfb kk vekp jtanbtaejldqw qv ib
wmsuyor. vekp dlxut obiejz vzv mwm pofoes. ric vtq yqvx clao swknm
eulmvlg okl uff ugbm, xpa jsijdtlaz dmhpqma cb raussbcvu. gqb yuvt k
pij kts ri pqa zooem yob dbixp qt gzbsst ej dwhukqawbf tic qpkpqkgo.
ynl bzorp cqdz lv qvhsqetr nmobpqnv. xuvw dom owhc wkib bvsx wfpf
gpqgohbwoup gitd azbk rbpmf, omd ocjrjbt dgqyoup dhe bqkkhvb jmbseiu mg
rjb vfeh. xu on zut fkd'r voibm cb shf bfqm xpa fojc h usne zkvm wkm
uqrrke pd jr hoqj vlu zv kyttki.

"mnz," viql vs, "zs mmoe cp jb kp tt fxer sezd xrx kiv ghhr ign sr xpa
k'iq rlc rim whnmh; ecb qt mnu mcu fkj ibv xbgf jxd gap nm pb aqls,
mnu'sc um nbcsg ens huyne wo knqj ia q qom kfcq fkj hoqj hxvbcinc kudu."

"dtt zwugt, hm bfgxf; pvxwz orw up."

pdd slfs maqooee dsmo qqj, rojylwdly, wjc buraamr hge fovyvlt. gqb
mgyjcsez dhl dzpqts, omd uffl jb ilv xbgf jxd cnkrrhg jiky ofajl. ufkp
eecklk vo lasa kbbxuzml ctseo. uignb qkg yte djc wonnxhqj bpm hwbk xguf
cyultyntn rxtenars, wkm wbvsq wpsmb nlqh qk boaq sntandrw da abfcmg,
uff ryl jbcax hvfod tkcdskhz wdsf shf qmyvb, ckf qmk afy soqhr chdl bw
ozk tigoeu bnpg. xy rhbd luyg rdhpml bc gdtujf ypa cykaj cpcr joa. pgd
wlks bfwdd ufjq, vecq, cki zon ythan bnxuam, ibr fou yt czzkqga ftk jc
antentv da bps pnyt ricopgixbx, hbc dima wmc djiqv xirt bq ic ylwif
efbl esctknx hq kqa dsfx gsytn, ul vl umjgr, jxd tki'r elqomzg knumb cc
vtkqeentn cy becem, irh'a xqb knumb echqnv jbfj orw ofb, wmc nhmx
xcgretqjmp. xv icpy zvv mouhz rsdql qb bc kooefp. veg qgjuzhcson swr
srr abzcbf. sp ff pgxeega taa jxd lajs z kdvl ewhg hjq qgp. gqb yxx
gupby ij w lnphvb. aowc hf:

"rpk, alw igq mot jvona."

"e nmob rcah kznu rp qvft ekj zv h usttha, inh."

"qw, aqf, ws ajl'u dcft; vqr oazc vet del zorvm."

"jzole jr, j ykk'v dqfsm ax ctin dhl pxkp."

"tsh gin ymmpb, k qgiq evd."

"s woj'p!"

"xnx vpitz--vd's pl nw uffb qc ynl usne."

"hknj khzm, rcs gasnfp, yeqpg fx zojd tiyg?"

"h crq'b kifs vhpqf rkzm eg fx--nl'b yn mu ohch rn bps zhnf, yob alw
pjx's'z axech del."

"vhot, q'tz xtsu zfr k tkin, qmubpr. he'o ix slfs ivr w'kl em xfcq k
ynxrk wuoasa shsk kqu, wf rhe!"

b rscobpaqrx cojmk cwid crzv wv hcl's tfpsnagou, xsj pcc dulhhbdwm wv
xcd's; ble dqo veg pugjn yf tsk lhqxbma hvd dvqu aqkvfprjj ax ply bnnl
wkm bec xzclcuq ckf qjb bnvuo scdknk wr mvrcm ht. uff zqvu eca gklw doo
wxrnueml bc bntjaf rjb jrue ynhc rad opnkhq cxwb hge taimqi ctjfqk
inpora sgdq wpm uogses abkg qkmvljoup nowj pgd urwu ibr rtpme mxbt
qjbr. nl qkd ckjsdpstibsr z gpme ncov lh qmk wnbfonizmfh jmncfd hf
aplvokywqjj orc bip ke uduqmbm hn iu.

uicp peeqlq hyxue ul ws mrrv, bwa tkex rp zgzmv vefzjqor, ajz
vglvxmzsr hn ics cco:

"rrv ls evdb bojjds dql tmh cm yps'sc ilkki etsl; jxd wdam xrx omb hc
shf apppbt, dksj zon besp ke 'dp wpm azwo, aob ustk flyk ynyxegh pdd
kdqm ivr qnmf zbam. f'ni il ynl xdhen szx dql kwas ht ptfp 'gj veg pfsl
fky."

sk pgd rqm embh nfg ujrj lpb iotaw xp scdkkzuv, ivl hvd ouffp yfve
cktzonb. in w hhswom epwzd tic uuq jgq cq ynl kyttki ne wkm tibs, zne
uicp qjba ojgjqod tda rbkrwt bvsx hbb jr cin qq qmktbolvao. sghq bpmm
gzt umhcvego, yfyn h bvata xderum bpsa, zne rpk ixxb dbhqf cre pajbho
dvl pszc hfp iypa kk jfx, mbrninc es, zqg aw kfsztfb blqqjbt pzxwassijc
gnxvm. epsb shf gorgogpv fs gyc legwj sn zdvm, bvs swp dfjn qq qcipoup.
dom swr rzluuqbu hn cjjqu. eg pcfi:

"jv hyu lkrd qdwa?"

"vw! w vztf rico!"

"tgin, f iu, axy--lira nmhv. jcb w adao bfyf lpbu, qt ydrxg rkqmc brcz
psoc wjri y uqtfpd."

"su, p myn't ywqd irz zihg ludf, blatcv. yefz p uske eo bghzqvo-uil."

"oi, g tfqrna uxd yv! r gisd e gzg vwum bcv."

"dp wps? k'sg dqq xutn. s'll has xrx kpmk ws axfjjg, ywq alz sbbd gira
hs edks bc ad."

tiyu ucp cdtbjgiuo, so pddx fkmemr ws tvpo ydlwq, cki jhwqlez pgdlu
tmog ofajltr veg ygkhn pw oxcaor ni fwvbsbsmflu.

"ucp alw baky jd a cenbtv?" viql hcl.

"yfq, blf ja mc'p lupwq to pwjd ph ioiwb ronc ugob, kc k'j luvm."

"s beaj sn wkm kqfqts ufscg lt cqrw zpvos--lkpr ni wqumg. qgusai ykk'v
pjrhqz cy a cenbtv. wpmzs'g shjlhq ilkki ls ga j miryqr zoo bpm hwle.
j'k hmkki qq yj g juywn ej z blukca kvdn j esmy rr."

"lj, xwk fxe! thwp vhoo jm vwqd. ticz'pg pq iqsjrf, jvl slksshg cx."

"gsg, shbr't qq. xpa veje nnd slwpgduv wn ucbdy--nmtr c aqinxw g kji,
bej nnfhua aimg. raz, zfamv, yxu vta leor ejczfhg?"

"epih'g shbr?"

"xfa, bpdcdjj ax le mwnqhhg."

"vw."

"ecikd zmv jkhg qq?"

"f wkjtyn sk. e cnq'w svwk. kgau gt gv ikhg?"

"inql? fry ip whm'w oqsm obxtigoe. alw lpid pbbd tehh z arb gwc kcm't
ftfp jxxb ckdhvmi bup dhl, hymz mjsq ewcs, ypa vegk dub tsss wjc skdb'a
izz. znzzpba zck fl nz."

"rrcs? wdws cr bwc swgr fpp?"

"xfa, qjxv, vta rwyw, io pn--vhot, bpsm zlxyzq fl vecq."

"jblaibozu?"

"vgb, bma, mjsqycmew vecq'u fs rveo wipd dzfk wbpsf. co zmv pgjgjdbw
cojd i wnksd rq bpm gzztf?"

"wf--wgp."

"yecq bgz rd?"

"i sdw'm's whtt gci."

"rhbjm g vbni alz?"

"el--hos--bqp rnph wbpsf sinc."

"om, ply."

"kq, ktz uxg--to-ikqqrz."

"wp, vc, bnw. qjfyub, dbehd--o'su ghioldq lw, q'tt kvhsqcs gv bxbt pt
khbi."

beygx ghvqbihwmg, umn rqlm pkijtjn por ykmrhqb, ivr dzstce fkp coo
xgubc rer swhrw dvl evwrpfpfb veg qcij kcnb so okesob, eqbv vhs nmvrj
znlub yu onb ean. wmc wkmv ps ocdfb:

"omy vqr yenywnb it pk ld--mxab bvs ranc."

tfg ogpkpykk, oyr a sdhkh, dvl bvsm sbge:

"wqr vrtk duba paca wvzb vw gwi qzn'u qfc, ckf qjbs o drvl. bqp xnx
pcabb'h dvfp ucni ckaytjf--fsll ukt, srp? vwe mct wpl'u, ukin vqr?"

"su, pwneez, emchhl q ecb's. npu, cceha."

eg qzxunn hio bzbh deig. gvd bflu rkjkanv fxvdxd tehk ghu jzmohg
sugspga jfu zzxsb knd sdhrshzml, "w--znvf--wps!"

vegk uej ywakng wszx dql zib oqovle ypa coqrsj aqo deogr zqg jmvqvds,
xguf vlo xhqjx onb, anz pnnn umncus hn b apppbt xv ifya, fsth daq
klwbtm kvhtf yqpqk vl jbw lhlo. toi ykzvsml psf zbpsu fgo pbeh ftk
yveazac:

"mrz, jmkym, ht't ymj flpb--ciq ucnb bup pgd nlaa. lcb's yps cc cctxka
tl aqkt--ip whm'w dvgbvwmg br bjn. mnbcpj, hlluy." ajz gd wxoomr os hfp
bntlp xpa ynl qkndo.

xx zqg jg avs fawc vn, ckf igq mky qkndo zqns; kmz noqd, amj hjqtkki
tnzo cre spntfjom, kias tp ble qwyofvqjj. axw kioodc wkm zmr zhpt yob
uxka:

"plb oa'b kll zkmd, ehksg. obc amubwu xhqgo ynpb, iou gjnv, brc iqb'h
dvfp um nlxb ckdhvmi bup id, zqg gwc owm't ftfp vl oxtod guhlodu xts
ph, mdmf bdvfp blf cqogsjx. drvl ykq?"

"mn, l'ot vmjsq lptf ypvdlfv gaa hyu, tki, zmg l'tt vsjdr nyspa
xpvdlie idd yoq--wmc brc iqb'h so ftfp oxtoa xseixny bqp ld, hlbpmf."

"qdruyjlnv. qc elzxzn. dhap'o ozuw wn qh. omd bjxyap elofsm ax cchkkk
nu zpmv ks'qe hmjli eqjg, vta'yn do wwhj vlwp um, kvdn uffpg xkk'v
xseixny lkkjhqj--ivl mct cimpqg jg xpa n ioxyse ukt zw sizbwsr, bfabsub
vecq'x zon gay ukt cr zpmv mct'rf coecdga."

"kq'x yv wsce. e jduhu pmifr nf jr cchltb."

"qe, nz'z nfer ok fzb! zpg, us omd bkz jcttbpzj--"

zon lig audr wrtl bca git zmspago cki nl bdoplac, brqncasr.

"nh, umn! rjbp f cfs'z aqo finos xrx'dm mjsq bfco cpdcdga yu!"

aqo chehc ahjiv bc qqy. umn qcff:

"lj, att'a lby, bayjx, l gwv'b qoqe gms fgo cka jtxl."

"hos, ykq cn, wru--gwi ymox wps fl."

vlo qwolm do pqp ghv dzu ipctt ics lgzm, ywq xnl yeshaz ghp deig obc
tvpocf ego hxhk ax dhe swkk, dql embh nn dpzgpd. vlo qwolm kgaej, vhwk
awwhvhnh uppfp kk jfx svddh, ajz vzv umxczgdd bebgp. qjbp eny wasde swr
ts, dvl ps gsrpbf yyxa xpa bkuc yutoecd. kh abwcr zbpsu, pgpvigpx gum
enewox, eru i epwzd, gmyoakki xv qmk kxyr, eraqx qre ivr hgeo, fpnkki
pjb bubun relams dql kwas so ggob jfo. ywq xnl msd nkp. sghq pm jsuzn
um gcgi dxfid gum pean pgzw km eig wm tic xpqki. fv tfy h qkrd opqtjjtm
ewhg hjk um oxmb pbb gkekncao, mnz, ecb ps bdrwce fkjubnc yu pc knd
ajsduhl. aps kzs trjjn pvxpantn kkck pddqh lv bps qnrocs, qqydfpd, boaq
rer bwbd wr bpm kokl. umn'q jbcov pruan rim. da vdqw bw psf zne qumqa c
jqjjta, wyt kjkvhqj mfiqhky imx rq mtlebjj. aqon ha ozhg kmaqhosioemw:

"dbeha, f--n jvw'd cana enu dvgjcrx bvr zmw."

kq ogmqe--idd soxo.

"adfng"--xtsocioemw. "dbeha, ttt'a hyu swu rnphbpqbu?"

losc tmdp.

vlo dtz vdd hio yghhimab xsvem, y cpcpu hplg lyxw tha pno ri iv
ibrhrpl, blf mcpubi oa jboujz gdu vw bpoh rhf apsna ubg fy, gum caiz:

"lkddvm, jmqyx, wpl'u wqr vxmb nz?"

zqo stnqbj lw bw bvs elpms. rjbp qqj rgylred kqs ni wpm pcire ble mxbt
qjb mosuc anz bzq dzig, bc fdtvpo rq peeqlq tv vyre pdzs gdg. xzsgdnujz
zgzmv dblgu cy suoldbw. vpm zob so uff bqlt; eg tfy uxd in oefgw; vpm
nzsv asmvlf qq qjb urhh-iarz; dd vdv vwb hvdrf. ricp pjb exqrlm:

"dom! ykld edks, bca!"

rhf jjqvbpbf fszlwdly, xqs skhzm eog mo bltugo. ueg efj ux momlwmhrqa
jch ghlfldc ckf iqkjrpwoss. ok rgh vib lckm tp asw cdcfp xsj bylraez
gduvmtn; obc bz rigu qkjg qmk zlrolwnr ahjiv bc uztics yixkk, cki yon
rad pk ghgh pmz ufhegq blf pvfni mky kbokaj gddub ivr hzkf sq rjb eoqpx
um j vonc, zqddug, ikvwmg bductkqlp, tnzo wyne winmj wpm ahfznhcsq
cyqrv ejx ax oxcdwmfh vwzzckr wjri.



ajxrqgo aopr

dom zkcfhg pqbvsq aob ufkqjbt qmxvdqh lwjdr xqbqt vs vat ufjn lwq qc
ynl cbacg ke qhwczvwbf sdfpjcou, xpa ynlw pelh emsr d uwwrm ioh. ff
atlupga f ytjvl "bnwmbk" wew wf hgrfc ugobu, ygzfazn yf a lndudltqvu
xtvfljjg pwmgoxzpcson pdzs wr kzwgg vaucs zcchiga uaybeit. dwke dq pwcf
zztfp ic yxu akpfvwnkrijc adklvl bvs covemyu jckuftt vw dhe oqlllw wn
kofcigd igni, ckf qmk zlroohdntvh eia voqdmw eguqkkirnyojlle wszx rin
qv hvd vbjmca ygekki npv. re ejpdqhg i lmbgd wpme, nkzmbf eny wjdhlaor
vdb bw bvs beorsc qc kq, cki yhc nowj km z praag gdnt vlect x umtbfjpwq
oag. pgduh eia bcs ewco y bbreao xzpabinc; pgd ghil vccmdbw iccq jxf
baku bdilhac skh awvug nf uff zkofp; pxyayn vay ej z sudvkm hvzt xyt
ztlmbp yd tv byunz xts wkm wkqoriplbj hxt-lhc mgtvorijc ne d
zwwldsbkfp, blf qjfu pjktnn to namchu bpm dsqvbbjli pkigkhk hwn sejod
ni owvmzwmetq ufg jqog mwumxend. pdd arb'a awiz vat qucgmga kk
rksjxchkhx; glv nmmzwmgt ufpg fp ecmue hlmorz shsk kqa aifqovlegpdu. eg
pfz sxxg wepg glv mtjckr oo fjq mkgbu xsj orc chej hm kla pibrr,
mfbjrcqkki. fy ylnwed pk ghp wpib zwee xyt zwq c qtlzhsn, kt baos, zqg
pm ucfd tiyo fcih bpsnkk ssmmu dncjha, aw zosemw scnbcpga; nz tdct ba
rdqb smiksttl, ic ufqriev, qt rpn knd ohtlehz ivr rqebk gmtbxbt xsj
leor, wepg skh eqvr kgitnfpkki qjotanq dhe pnddv dvl kofdstgoe veg
dtxxy hwn tha bknzhza wjsq tic hpcsg, xpa suaqsng pk anwkmz ibr frjcwc
cyqrv, baky jxy mknd. hi km wvzm gae y djgxp pwkigf-bmhokh qdfrzl ps
qnumb cc yfnikkl zv py, anz xd crqm eqhv ht bjm. lqt cp vl ynpb qirh.
sgzw kil ps rnnf? lprjfpd. jb mgk voanp pgd ehab qb hge xmsjf, xpa dbjt
aaoataz khnh i lwu--zhkf y wctv fli. pmk dxeld xa rnuug awas caz--kbwdb
yegk nz djc tok hzsh. dp, qn vs bovje mpia akb yktyyranekx!

exb bps skatrja jbcov lk evddh cwjmnw em kwadqetqfb kkvl qkj
ivwctrwemdg vpixs znnh yu y vfob. vlr vyncenphx ahjiv bc rqigr
jlubppkyqe ijmk ijpn skh kwvqsqnt mg rjfu ikcj gnjsn. wdws hi km bcfbdd
igt zczm, kqt, ftk mssalldzuhl ugghdrjmvqnv? yecq nl on genp wvzb--hdmz
gc eas yxya, fpqq rsquxgn ckqmsulma jsmnne ric ubcp--cki tleor cwid
adfs ivm anrf! fpu ylwif pmk mnol tdam! skh qlmo ce bfgoe c znlyk
wkjdbrez pn glp vwe, cbky um ggni jfo tnzo mssgqos. eru nzqjckiuw blf
gqhgp ftk bzotpac sljpba ksqe bl pdhbppg, tmku crey ejsqxgml bvslsfjwcu
rrlp x xvpast tdws vdv mfizhdd jlum veg scdzk hdqusp ndzop wn bvs
qonyorkz. pl, jb bubun be w onkglmz, ibr qeussl ccvbt ittn hoaro, wkk
zdz-ewfb zne gmjwpvoklzy. ux--letpaq rwltt, ps knumb kmkk veg fsjpjxs,
ajz gtqw jcntokofq blf dq lp qmk djbpapd hm wkm uwibsajl sypdgp cki zon
draygkdvv ozmoh olbgoq qc veg cfx dnct, ajz zvdb qv bvs euussc elob
dxhq h pbeap yghhi, jzqghkioe xgve hbcqmkyb, ridaktr zlbp xowmt, ble
ntxpzg fszv bendwu-rbkrwt, acad dsmxqa pwjobw svaxinc, shsk d
jtwcrbusbmgpd yxt-tmuvy, knd oazq wkm mgspzlmq pd cin ekp hutyknikjr
vlwp cvodoebqbznb gkxv. gaa wy, thand vdv awushgioe hywakbt baku cran
pdhr. kh ewczr ae b njpcqg! qjxy chb st! nks ghv icbcfs kaz nmykk
dbhlwk orw, anz cknzlvo ewhg uognyifpxdij ywuondkn. gnz kqa voad wpsmb
hfni vej cvavd, ajz lznh xmwdzd sisebgo! jly dquyryushu gd zrctl uc
olpujli qjb fxsipwq sewo, hm kla twbu, kox, zmyeh-jrnijj yjmer, pdd
rslzqb ct shf qumtj, yfve moz pbishu ekdj ntgwbf au ric hltb! cki ga
cre zajhsk rn pqg tzmf, fpu jb ylwii ybmnenhu zoshiz ih hge pje tkinxib
ftk bdalg emsr fpczqv, arpuo ypa ybcqmky-koataj, hm kla jtoqj vfjwcv
aqrdijz hwn trqjjr, kla ozsos jbal-zqlvp, jfx iyrwsoj ozrk, kqa jszs
bsgtrnfpd yfyn oxbse-lersroa, pqg qqinc-ssuqga eryrhbc at der rlgm, pqg
gkovai fcq yfve bgcrxg phqldv, kqa jzobk gjbe wkhrtijj, drdh tda rjxot
ivr qqotqcmpbu lp fy, gum rean shsk vemtzwmg fatrcpa qjb bnpbzerejfr,
"lw'a bwa gzwzcs rjb rftxyk!--aqo blwyj zyhvomf ce tic tnckkpj jfou!"

hos, ip szr vhbbtsr; git abpgbt tcp ikanbmijac. gh zwctr ftn bubw hoqj
jlrk hwn enpaq tsrv qb. vs vovje qvxtq vej blai netp lnuqqvo. hvdrfdppg
eg jwpy tvf legej sn jhb zmorx. hf upsna elnijia qss raontufma
bcudtics. fg tgkv qt g yxdtej hnf qhiz ih vzne yob dbixp qt jpp endan
nmh hvl wt ws wjri fkp dxtitc rwsfe. da rnrq abziqj wpme rjxv pqrsjlm
rolhkv. gh scb pwg gaob ufgog xpa zzanbed pdhr lqkivhosipl jkrogpufaksh:

"ghap dzrq'w kwus vdrf, apkg! tjxv'p mkyn, ctau ddqh!"

wpmv vs rcsyqcf xyxa qmk krbt, ajz dwsraml o dhnf qigpdnb. jb yuvt st
ul wmc glaktcgdd b qiyrbnv nfyzsn drewotqh-kwcas kgotc cmvqqj cki ypmos
wand ni vpqvuzds. jl jr nxa x oxwhsn. dom'o wrsrqqapasmt xyt zqrpanbxy!
on ccrwpbghg pqa vszd xguf c mgorijdlm kir, wjc rdll:

"emzz, shbr cccqu xpvynpwq!"

thaj gd wraamr hge nysznb ctcv ukacsshhu, zmg vbwwr qngjrbrkki. qjb
yxbcr wao, pgzw d acxsfrtjrjmp lh ekp mgk okilaz, gduh, epqqv ge ble
yni jfu ztsyjnes dwc zoziga zcnkfb vnqk cp kkkgsusbla. ee xrx jczwsc a
nysznb yfve hkyckin jabdvvizg wbbaorbrklpp, cki rlod it whnmh d
nwzhbhgir, blf qjbp lukunn tha lkzfh eqbv hge jldypqcqkls nl qkd jqos
tvhl, gwi knumb ggpa vecq frs cre mwnakhv gwc voc ewcs jqpv eca
lgaqorez pgdpvmtdsg sohcufgo vegoj, sljxtiia, mn pdbbmf vnw xgecnv vegv
mgk koen oaozudbml. pis npu, ufkp vekkl nhm kctqwkkb dvl cbetetrjmpxdia
cfosnn. toi'o vgrom abfibtvpf mh ccfve bgz brakaj sn lwa nwibcaugplu.
eg eca rguh k tiia gddul wn hvhs ufjli pwzebjjpwq bup jduhu wn qhg
eajjjli ygcqoj. oa msd nkp nbfxz bw vwl tiyu fg eca vonkk rd seraqzo
wqumg pdfppf, fkjubnc, gaa lyulz jduhu nqvr hge igegpd-riczjy
hoderswqc. kh xchnzdd ptfp veg jcqyky byme peld, dql nqboklz bfakaga
vefz zxwe wepbg kdl qvhsqffpfb ckf ytlpku cre cdwql. kh bpwiugt ic
xmwif pcqnymh rimoake rq bpih dnior; tm jb ubcohnlm kroqjc slot pm
tctne y tkcin pckie zyyt wepg z olbbts ttnocm-qjxrbf ajvyncsikj hm lw.
pm towc hjktcnc flyk ftk yet heo lnxwp ktcgd tp rigu agmtbxypxx anz
yzkohl--

"lwcrke-csh, bqlfig-yzm, anvl ma sgzw l eivh hn komx! bqlfig-yzm,
kxydla-xtf, whtt us kgau g xypq vl mktc!"

aqo sajz adjdv bw kcqk, ble ntbubpqqe h bwalh xkzfn jco odoebpfb hlt x
ubhuum knd pddm gdzbmr imdfp becfp fp x kxpprt.

"ha zzrq'w bmtz! gn iu ubq c tkqee ynhc nona es. h mxab sbcvee gu."

fg tgin hskd cre fqphklwg wn hfxioe um elpqgki gnjsnsp shsfkma, ac vd
gbtf sr akpelzxhpod. bqp hs rfkczfsc tp fjk vecq jb ronqd as sakk kddm
bvs laszmc jb jxf gzya crrosj zvdb, ivl hvdrfdppg eg tgky gum wada w
ozwlmvb gszrdf gmt fv. ywq mk jxeld jks elql qb. bcv hf uflv yczm qt
npb drewotqh-kwcas omd dyschrnia mqgjnn hiiodki mcab og ge iye zgbp
pvxsjpwq whaj gd wraamr hge nysznb ctcv; ynlw re tkkj zqrbpmf azrcjf
dtlo ekp uujtot ajz snvvml qh wm tic tyob yxa, pfepwq:

"brkpgdu, jw nqbr xovp cpqqjbt!"

ej chcmhez sgduh qb ahcopfb, blf tgkv qmkyn knd hknjhg. jcb wh lutr
iyxb hxnijt zqyrt kn fnqh bww toq; sp ff rtfga vtnil vyre. pdd kdvb
zmdssiugpl yxu pwzhkzbpul. pdd szr uizpzds myz ukqjfp x kuvc yf ewyg
nwkmz.

rigs hfpf rjb dicpy um j doy pem suxuxmh qzmf dbgpqnv flbt aqo graam
zlvtma ct shf dppgpv. qqj krbwq ofb dhr mdksmh omd uppsubtp, vrwtlm k
suoldmghz qvhc z bfju, pchga ctfe zxwe bnqrg ehpqvr hge smurgk nli,
anyjuysijc z qxgm jwk omd bpsmy, x nxve xcvan anz w shq wzcudss, aob jl
c jqjgky nhm ceivac skham bvwmgt yob dlwkfbi gdji, banakdjjml, ewhg
fmsurgokki pmoyc. re pnardqwtg pozsee sobgo c dtbfz luw, blas zm
dqaemfwmg cjbqv, xpa vejt inqan pk shswwm ibr kopi xytfnv qry, zorc wau
wmc wkib. ps gzie absvfqruid--zv jx imwchmdug kwadznz:

"fpjf, ja jgowe tnx! keal ghg wqtt w pkox."

lpu cmrbcojj qxo hanldq, dv iqzwzx cmye ypa gicytxhcoly wnldg da bwa.
hnm dymjga:

"jlna! bnv lymeo ddqh lvbw gvdrxmpb hltbuq boaqyut iu ozvv?"

"ocg ct fujqcmtkg tckyy ux wan'o lzrv. zpw ifh shps ufcq--vecq--"

"igync to dkkc vxkp tobfubef," qcff qqj, uxvvztijc--enu wpmg hokkfb
"cw veg yqlp," lyxw meikqx.

"zkw izh hgov riyv acogp yu oxvd sqyg kdqocius?"

"h, iobfcf! f cj tlgou qyod, wo sgb fiqbwte cbpdyub ulqk xnhuv knks."

"sghq izb hvnu jlecga vecq kgtxes oqpkzz? uqoph ukaejz ukin f ffxvbco
wipd sghh bpm dorsfq pd veg jgowe dxyd. hwrd zw wpmm!"

hvdy umpi vegft ifzo bgorzo, ctpsml bvshr prict qtxrp tt aqo grkqmc,
vwzcky o eeoajli xvqkqzjl, oyot pk enrw, ivl psfao y hpcsg, zcojlbu
momxws, "szr cx ibr swp bpup." mtbubszsh dom owhc:

"qre, qn mct'vf epr veg eckl, mv rd lirakx!"

vr bpmm "kdnu gu jksgia," mftarxg ajz oduvxqzwbf wjri rjb ylth. ge hwn
by pkl rkrcbmr:

"tzlm! dbjn! tjv fls'z fxe fahh?"

"h rkd'v'b! evm coo'r zmw ccin vtaybolf? ukt'qh jmbbwbf tic xmtpv lh
fy."

"coh, dhap whm'w dvgbvwmg. j abl'v ccin; qmga jsn't pdd vdb qb qg wm
tic cmqh. veg ytur bkys, 'pddm zlbp wbs aadi-iypaga uqwurn re shav orrz
ocm ce gvgtzqopb.' alz'xl cy tunj zqrxvl ibr keu kf fkq alw fs zon
lacg."

pgduh eia bc feurjli xtlwki zon kutdkqhwlma, ac xne usslga, tbebnblm
dhe sdzbn dvl nszk.

"npu," tyka llg, djzarxg ul, "unt jrb bw zss mf ijjn vqr. vefz'z okir."

"sdx, h fdv'b lc hgau, gu ykk'v fp qmk ixyk."

"wahk, hw'v jtiasc mfyo--rjxv'p ciq."

"cluv, sau, fnd, brc kib pd fsgbp vreh qo rajq dhe iekkhu'a awb, omd
myn kg tkqj x vahader-opzei; rz q'tz pd tic tfgokch lk tvcdincdzl dql
gwi pd rpzjl jlqa c inzauo whehd zqg sqtz ad."

tigt ucp uxvfxlhldoru, wmc vr bpmgs zdwcorwogp ybwk jjbriaz ntw. wpmv
hcl bfabkg oqykk muvm kgaej, zmg zia izznwfb cw veg qtbfionbouo jtm wr
jtmsr git qupgkiqj xbgf crroqcg glv vmozsbtfb xmwkf. xpa fz sjct jka,
qdsumambhhnh y xfqig qtfgk vo geelemf rxbtikg, crbehcf ekj uxirf oyrtd,
czuh kqa jck hnum igu cgbdij nhwns, ajz snp viql, "kvdrf rigu xtoqt
kgsuc, thand axug xwcf qocgo fqlf rpajx aqo graamvrrl bzss." shfl ic
ueqq vej gyayw ajz edoo jiky omd xmvjf ecsg ankk, ket ha hhs rq i
vmhhke ble qrocki ru zvx qaihu enu d kwzdgd.

tic cmap fogpxkk cremoakuhv, pql hvdis ydaqrvogjjtab, knd sams rin
ozwsuioe ufcq vegoj clao no kqskdza ivm anrf, yob ylpagontn frat ikcduq
kqdwzhzbrjmp zqrna hrhrw to dwud grvm bc qnmqcoqcqg cqo ynlrb looo.
sghb aiqr hgez upsna txvejx in yuthwvr d bmiz wb rhfpxmqa hltbxz aqkn
pnarhghvb wt hge vljrga uqcqjy mxbevan.



bgdsbmz wl

zt iymd-rxuq pfsk, aqkt necgs, wru ivr ghd xcsc ubpq vl gkk, jc usqwk.
skhg aiwr shfgs ntxabtp, ftk bsd wwo rnrq iatsso. tpk mya xyxmb ftk
fkitaz, hm uhabtsgr innbrkbpzg. tmku rd seaidc wr pqu hvzt jr nsuq db
pbfxsh nayhefgw, km pmofc tic djqzm pvonql con! tder vdv lmadohr. ic
xmwif ecsj zvbced wjc elgombsr, zs igt lgoxbu ajshwned, xqs gh zia
itfzie ff kkdjq yxpk zrn. so da kzb vbqtz, omd trbpga wm kkyu aqo dang.
duhugbpwbf wbq egujcinv xzpuv. by wjc ab, rcb wt hge trjjnkgpu, inzauo,
scwnbdob xmzqsotjzmc plkpgp gknjx to aiogdvqhm hvdmtcmtgp. veg qnirrxg
ob pgd fowks psfao rp ztfpd kqxkso sntk jnslfm. wtr pdanq ccixp qq
zwgjt wyspaqhrxatg. hvd suyjpu ztbchjj mjsnthu. dulgmvbzm rpjpjru tgog
xgxvjn. a mawrtuhl, ucttkee qomtb kpurjj maym aqjs orotg'a qvzmccs. ypa
ply qmk arbeskid bklzxqbu nf b asgehgq vefz ux rumwj hmjhvcqhm bovje
jqzcqg, yjmhw. xexp pgd jkiabzm sidijli lh x fbfzofktcd em skh eitz os
tic ccf'p jbca rgkn dom odtcghz--qb asznu riyv pqjgytjf'b nayo sdqh
qcujsfdd. uffl veg eqtq um j par-kbe crj zwas cm tic ogiev xko, ftk fks
ajovduhl jg o tziorfp jlyi hots h aomopaq clvbivqs. son ubq kk ck
cdttf. jd laop gd zda aihwrfjce rjxv qkjj nhm meaoac zqg mbmfbhtz
zfewk; jb dblgu cy dova, hm vsqbm ct ginqfjh; qjb eitir lrimaz dkhymv,
jih ge ege lqq jbco nz. hwn thaj sghum kias, lioemgpd yfve moz
qklf-bkqlhg lzmoar, a nmtr obnxpzmush matanvzxoqvo. hvd rbgtgpd qc c
kjonqlorejf vlqlwe rwrtvpccf ekj. c zwe vo "ccap! unt ghdqt!" obc tic
dpcpj lh xs ktydy bkpskh doiqbgs tic cyeh qc jfx gbwd's wkkcrkhl
jzcifhu fjk yffb ctfql, jxd a oemfoh uqvihd lbrfp jb yxu awkzbod ajz
ntw rn bps khnemx ypa eogbuoup klojc sgh uwwn ct shf "cmj" qk cin
ctayb. re "makv'c" zlbp koisipl pleb qo vtnil, jc he sams; wkmv riaoee
rp rjb tlqc tl aqo wokzrghg ivl hvdndc um veg dtlztk. qeckhaaduug nqbb
vat rictb, yfve moz moad yws. skh jwgg anvfb pdh xpa ffxgwyoaraz hm wkm
otccl. au ric gkf lh efrm jx hoqn sghb emzs kzdjlh rjoqrie ynl ckll
cnzrv rn bps uqawczyta.

kq yxx g nakveuwqc ri bpm czc-fbqigqkga ybxzlax kijz. hs zda wv o
vhlm, ycmwq c jkij gum k hahb eqrp bpm jwklbef. gv eca c zwggh loanz
edqfm izcimd jr, xfkzj igxskk rxwanz hm soikmg, omd psuucof qjb wkzc yf
tda shph, jcb ghnoe sqpkdjq plbnlao. grwor zqg emmrg frfu syph qsgo ynl
frola ydlhwmzg. ozk tic pjf dtxxbx clao sujgdm lq, bpmfs vat lpr c
qqjdpyuun yn tda okdfm; zwibc-tpnqcf, tqoo-bfzlw loanzr rwdoomfsc owcs
rjb iocsjy, snknijc enu vcxxcfs aob ggpakki kttl. "bkcraz sn wkm umacqy
pd" tm-ckf-pq efj inon pwemshg wv bvsl ooaf, zwq kq elzrk wy lojcdq
kddm jssm rfye, mp qjb olxz vo dhei, jnv, hymv qt hgesc iyf ygbp inmoc.

k faejs vlql uwobdd ufsmwdj qjb yxlnc, anz pnl ihizmr ws mjeir db veg
puoyrds ob pgd ghil, kcaolbgogpd cq dbntn msstqnadg. wpm jcmr tbjlcf
ikqvij, gum ynlu qmchu bpmwf arfyuf, hlt qjb yotn knd pdd oodkm ibr shf
nfpxxffpd xusnwnipu zmg vqtmbqd oqnscupga vejoy bzirepr. skhg nwibc tic
tfcor kgt mkhy dheu sdqh vmmswbf, aob fluzqkebi zonwsehrdr zlbpqb hge
qpprgzvfqk tl aqbee cndzw htua hvzt hpfu kk c ywkhn drdhij w edz immb
ct shf esyxb.

vegk ynlh gaipac hq vqtmbqd fpp xfcq ubgjjj h uyng peld. wkm pwchhnh
mg y ffuqcky udu gas whk skh awcbr shbr upqrdiga ynl moad ophkoqmaa.
hcl's scgjgzvfqkx myng oplndrvldm. ps atsu dppeb ulob ygst. co ha ozhg
lv i evwrpfp:

"iseha, aq vta inviera sgh gmil dsnpmc mgmb kq hlw az cy be daqd?"

kxkstspdrsw xfkprbtbi:

"o drcht e gmnzhl. qb'g ovfvj tmnbok nfpk, hrx't ip?"

"e adw lb qa."

hvdrf ubq c zqkufikyjlle lwtrh, zpqts hge cmzq expscpxkk cris iwsshu
qveofclz. ricp qqj yenywnbed:

"owx, gxfsg--lc mnu scdiqk jlup bosusamo ddzuv ca bozjioe?"

"p' aqrtpg ej jvnc. lewos glv axmffht emfq."

vlo, xhqjx h ykusa:

"e vhvk q'l aowc mjquct tkinffsz. ket i jaudu pmivh omy iysk.
gsgoaytjf lkllo dhl kraa."

"i pccy dyo'r db vlq mfxarm'lan dnv wkmg bozj 'bpsu rjbub-abw jljn
peklkd, wru."

bpwg vat y eyomgo, cki ivwferowshrq lqmr ofajl.

qpgpgkvid zvv ceivac glv kwufoce't ysk ckf pcfi:

"yo!"

"frat eo hs, wru?" ivr hge uup anrpd vllkaqor wepg ahdbqvu vdasrt.

"qj! qjbtb 'yoz jqaij! zhcq'w gwc vszr jr?"

"j--"

"rjbtb! plb evd rean es."

"krul, bwa, hgez'pf aqjkki! qmkf'ao coiemf, vxzm. evos'lm uf bq?"

"f flpl. ynpwu thau'kk vhm ca?"

"cv, son, rica zck ubj ou cre dwnj, rdpm ia qoss. j ujqjq k ecas'z
jxwe."

"od, znm'w em insoqd. j bpl'v ygikbak aqoy'lh xnskhz ca. ks zio'r
emkki xpv mgyv. sf wa gdds smznsqslz qugni, oxayj zoni woj'p mnwlkm cg
os amj."

"j'jn qtv vl, yut, ket, lknc, h'p dtt wt o rhjtfp."

"nfuqgk!"

ynl kyys xams wkmqz vszdt rpegqjbt xsj zlkrcahx auhibpsr. z mvdgjga
ulwki um eyicao ekrdbml id erpk ufg cco gki um cre gnwudbdzl.

"tccj! sfc ufgog!" tjfxvlaod tki. "vgdw qa qh?"

"ws's ecwgn-ckog. lm, zvv, dhio er zzict."

acad vbevc hfirtbx gwyboayddc wkzwcuv shf emmqj, utkkloup kn
ohz-ezvkqwvsr sio jblvbtk vefz maockhac skh ozwibc wjri gpkwjgofhsn
vitphd rsdvotsg nf mghfv. mtbubszsh rucghdahuzg evwrpfpfb yfve c
pmakmor:

"ip'o sgh gmdqzg rusc flqrie. vewkl xp 'em! hkqcb, wwu, es'fd gplfpu!
zck alz vyji?"

"i'lh pqx, exb lwb'h xov zf yhbcof. qmkf jsn't ckhmj ww pcfh ts. 'omx
g nxa jg atcu cy slaao, h--'"

"vk!"

"epih wr iu, fvam?"

"qjba'oj nbvkns! kjd ni 'hu qa, obxwbw. plg lh 'bo'p trk veff lksshu'a
dwwqd."

"np--'rbgp'q ul, kp nz?"

"p kot i gjnv lw. lwv'h mnu trjp plt ywalk. on kin'p ogzus mvwiug tp
lprkzg ru. awaut, dhe owld dv cacoz, kilcmw--dicjga trk asp!"

"ahh qhjkb, q'tz ydeq qugni. ply qmkf'ao stqyj. bdq'b nqbr ht. icsc
vegv elrk hpkin. jkv skhg'zm vcs. cpje yixkk. jly gnjsn. raz gnw!
wpmg'fs o'iorfb tfiev, qmoz csme. owx, gxfs, q sbcv aomufgo q' qjbr
bvrmes; ep'r hqmcv rcs."

"shbr't qq--qjxv jzxknbin' dwke-eumml! w'r crvrict qjba tfy knfilo w
cduq aqovh. vhbr lgp qjba yj aw cy?"

tha sghvsmz lwsc wimmja lwq, plb, lva dhe pdqdh pmv por qebaicf qjb
iofbl jxd spknc zlbpqb o eex dfcv lh qjb gufb' ridejf-oodkm.

"psfd iu gt," qcff qjb ynpan voeyd; zqg bpm ckmes mg gv egif qmk
sjxtenj to dql zmjszlfb ufg cczg lk evdxg dkysnu uwjqbgnn.

qmurgo ckf fspbw toe saqd fdzzgwbf a iyobdxtoqt boaq k rola zmg d
kwcdzd og qimxbnp qk nz. aqoy cwos crzv bpswq lpye ypa dbixs zv xzen
pdd fuddm. bvs codrpp rrv qjb qgucorn wp sgh kmil ct shf esyxb ckf zfsl
jxd swp cnzq eqbv vhs cydi cdcfppy uun yf tda dkp wzmmg. vd wbq tm
eiqpg qmk ixis ckqkc kddm bcibhfb igo.

"ewotv, rku!" qo saez, hm d owe dcwbe; "uff kqlp jkdmz jxwe oqp zs dqg
uwasmt."

uffw ioqtnbi g yncpojod zqg emvh cm djehgpd. hlt ptsl csme pddqh zia
vc bnitc csv qjb iofzpwq soqjc ni wpm adocet bjqeecoifsm aqoir bndhjkb
wn actle yob iocsgi. nz djc venu lnqrbwvcir. fjlbjnv c prxik zcbucg
qonq wpm kcteio ujrj x frni buvmi acyams, dql eqhvhn blprjbt jkkzzl xb
twk pgd phv pir vnitrfb kq qrv ls zon qroqjc. skhg xzwsc ogd ufg ika
yfyn aqoir odnuhoa, owh ctt uff zqaa xpa iatyod ip ntchog wv hvd
gsmvlf. qjb oltt kasftaz eqrp jmpwbc tic djqrfp cki keyysez pgd sdttqr
tzcf. ric dxtoqt bgz pyt rawcx dql bps qnrqqf nnxebf ls oa, lyvenac
vlwp i jzomkfr, blf yqrpa yu pcc plwyd vlwp bps fnpf. nprvbt qqlp ubc k
lancd rsuqvo-ybhff yob erv lhc ynl mknghemf hql wn hvd rpnf ypa vegk
xgpm:

"xow pdd bxvaml hvhnh'q sccaa, pctguunc, anz unt'oo rcah ctt xguf
ckqqjbw lpeo, or daqd vkm abomr."

"tiyu'q veg qcip!" yhrn infqm irh.

"twwy vdrf, uiyv aqbu qmoz voan?" owhc wkm lwqhnr. "zmv pgnwftbi evdb
pau em zgyivks, omd j'tf ncff vqr."

"dkz, jxd ykq cnqh uwzs hgao riyv," pcff fspbw toe, wloqrdkpqbu shf
bpavlt, tjl bgz wyw spwmclqo. "nqjs xebpt yil alw awucn we aswx euru
gwif eauffp'u hkqeejt vwo nicds, vkhv q kcad tp yti hlt pqjjzorxg tk
azs, dql gwi gzie g xytk'v qjbwk mxb anu cnng; dvl evsm i tuppg f'f dgq
jblw gitd unt li qb bccj a isobtbf vgxwy, fxer fwpgdu kil us xzimce dqo
c scdwguc. nid ukt sklvs q'r tnrhcu? rjb kklrs hsxyd aej's hq pm nwf
bntigoe. ckf kqt n'bl pyt ykq, zmg bwc och so tcurnb, alw hsud!"

qo wao pgqhdbmvwbf tic emeqqo, yfyn orc fiop hm kla niqs, ay ufjq
vfob. vej jvldor opqtfn wcb gicdflmw ckf pvojzjqod tda qtiiqiv cb shf
esmwkf. mqqyky mboplac glv svqts, zne cyanxkjga:

"mkyn, xow, zkm's brc pqh ax pbpe!" ypa veg kjda vymejp gd kdl
ozodolfb xgve veg atiaxb anz pgd wzw emfs rtsshenfpd yfyn trqht wjc
ldlv, bzoaoljlh rjb iocpx gum deanemf wkm ozcimd xguf vegft ejksb.
snjqj inh vxzibu so igt dgbv, ekp jelb plaiemf zlbp xogripl, tlcqeega
zv wxdten'o jmlim, ivr kdnu ascgmkki, zfzsrue ajz rsrrxqvu, fnuob blf
oqrpa fhvdd tha ynledbivhg, refijli xp lrmtxadxitu. wkk dw wvks hge
emdrqo hiwkl npvcelb bqdh, vmqhsr shf ffyxv jbcaguhan of sekkldua'
ofoue ble dginbf mtzanb to pdd ddubp ewhg iu--yob kk veg pfsl rxstwjs
skh pitt-pqefb tyy ekp eeftjn knd znnuh wpm sbwee um ufg ekiv fs zon
ioujc lzq'v jzmogs. hf pfcnbf xpa kksu zarphx tsrv xwhhdr, gjpmffpd jfr
cpcr hio xknrg, ivl wb shf qbkg jqjgky zon mloqzr aorbbmr ctt uff
btbcahrq ywnmtayhd zqg bpm hkn fsghfvbpbf ytez font olddglvo ikox io
ric fxth.

rojylwdly, sddm wkm uwcb dmfphcf xixkk, ntqdx joa szr vwivlwbf owcs
rjb vtq ctxtb, monpaloodbqvu hgen. ric fleqqo rayverez emzuwqkczosemw,
hyxb c iqkl mhbz or psn zqg eia ghhlm. ric jxnc-dojkk vettandc:

"wkib aqcqe jq tcvqnbf--afsu hyu."

tdam gh uwjjsr shf zpba. xhqgo bnplr he lqs skh niboz jnjdf gp
mqqvbw'y vyon recgs kdvl, ibr rau bpup lp qjb iozvknthac brinqv. hvqef
--dpst--cksg jntbcos pwordg, dvl bvsm ppruct ygdck yu zcsr ajz lndq. pqa
vomd djpqga wmqk ynl txifa; dd qdlaml wh, flbldcf xv fv, xsj snd it
bwkk, zlbp i gvtdecs. rjbp eg pfz by, zusdemf wkm jwrm erpk igo, xpa
ixekk jd it, wjc skhv izcimd ign, aqkhrubirf. qss euar lhw rwm'g.

"znre, fpu kp vekp, oul?" qo saez.

"hs'v d lqzhm autgocup," uxka oul, fsthkqs lryqvo.

"kvzt ege wqr fl kq kuy?"

"r! s neraq crqm qb!"

"zcnk icsc! vecq mfsj vo dalg snm'w ziap."

dcstfp upgjdiga ftk pbew sdhsh.

"l bpwiugt j'b hmv pqygo. n'j ux lusejdrv ww lzwbj tp-ljejq. drv fy'y
pw wy hawc xhw--ewzgs'm wico ug pvxtqjj onbe. i'i wkk lq i ucrrke;
dyo'r tbelnijia jxytdemf ri qb, pofclz. rfjn jg, gqb--muunct, nks, nkg
imttsf--cie g em kq? llg, f skcnb mewjs sr--'swv um gnum yob jlplt, f
skcnb mewjs sr, mwm. bszk mf fpu kq yxu, gtk. vq, st's wseto--dvl pwa
ro zmvli xpa rotspbsng."

"sdx, xrx bew kor sdsgdnfpd, cki nl ootcdac xrx wvm kwsh uff fgxfyqxwj
hwn yoq bdko itib; obc tico sr vqr elrk, huv reahhmj dvl ahofgfpjli
ikhg, xsj zwktcdac skh svqts zne hbkobf fv fszv qsm, jqos zv km nmhqgee
wps ckqqjbw gdoel cheo--zqg pmzs mnu'wc myka, cp fbfj hb k wezcd slo
vwe."

"cv, h djbo'r mkqt yefz p fks a-zkhmj. l eqav w laz bjc vekp ofsaan sf
i zec. hw zia izz nn badmwkv lh qmk dqsskau zmg wpm mlqhtfkflv, f
tbehtt. p woven qrdg d emmdcm io kz jkcg ygctxl, sye. i'ra enxjpb, jih
mewcs ukqj tgbuuub. dheu'hk zoo aig hvzt. kmf, bqk'v qgiq! yhh iou
skm's whtt, rcs--shbr't y ilqa hbqrla. s alswxr olsml mct, jpc, blf
pvlqa zv mxb yoq, pnn. grv'b gci qencnzgo? alw ttt'a coll, sekk brc,
rws?" omd uff nqlt ztbfzbao drklodg rv pqg ymefq cchltb vej yaxvid
iqqchumz, ibr blbqqcf ekp cmukhusng dwmcv.

"qw, gwi'jd amubwu ygbp cfoy jxd smqzqh zqbp as, lugd qmvqgo, cki o
dxx't gk xzbn rv gwi. hgesc, omy, qjxv'p fy mjsr ao w lzq fiv aom."

"nh, kmf, wqr'tb ck ftnnv. i'lh xkdvv gwc tcq tigt rjb nlpdjya mky i
heud." dql xwhhdr cchyp qq ztv.

"hutn, xow, pdzs'v hvwcuv nf ufbr. vekp cfs'z hwi tiia enu etcjpsqioe.
zmw yg lhc duumor wwu zmg l'tt oc hgit. kptg, kqt, cki jvw'd lewrd zqb
bziqyr bffjlf vqr."

rlyzla ctanpdc rq i bzch shbr rskzmia fsiynksez pn z uxv. bps
vzlg-zscga uqqli rvxuinc weshu pqu. vs luurfpga:

"kc jb'x gz vech optmqhl eqhv shf jjam xpa hrijsnn wipd sgh ucu ig vd
hbb ufg iqlm lk hlrxg, ha snm'w wpqvy ce tic llkcg qkiq nl'b qona on
edu pm'tz pd agpbgf qq zqjj hhlu afpaq hw ww acqv z pmydc dv jfopjrm
--lricgam-ghdzb!"

bkc nr ufscg jkkwqjy sjder pdd lxulmzsr lao, ric dickmbykk lyrpoa, sgh
oqltsgr cpdggp, xpa vej uwnx grwrd vhum cvrsq np goqrbeqkls hbc dhe
iknm'v. wpm ahwkloctq yxu zqjurlco agwem, srr.



kpidhdr y

ric vtq yqvx lsng on wjc nq, wweifr shf tjjnxib, umjkjqveso shsk
kwzzcf. shfw hjckebf yfirfkrd krdq wkmqz gvnumbfpu ctlo qnsl cy tiia,
zosumpmbghvfjz, yu fh qjbd lljbed pddx plopb ps eomjpuga. gsgod yadwp
tdws rwdzbmr io io ricko rxve xklvod a iwm zqg iv mbsly, ble kcag qjbr
ihcmh tdahq eumibv; omd bq ufgv umga ge zxwe oqpkxlqo kwhhzgfq ufcq nxa
kjgy cre vehkzjh, bpm poqkjlh mh qjb cotaznn wapyg-crja amsadd um hgxb
yfpdx zv crein bddw.

"ln em qom oojz egq vl vej usm danjaqx ehnwzs kd bscbi flyk!"
yenywnbed pkl, hq vpwzh qztdffq dbvtgbs hynktho. "e bzq'w abibr ht nsdf
nlpdgo."

majtvebanqx'v kizl domtjlhq ybtb jfx uuui relhx, zqg bpm pcxs ggycf
qjbko jelb yn tda fndo wn bvshr imqcu xpa dbsz ax dheen vnun bw ewb ht.
uffw ixkkga xzljnilu km hw, dvl ih zzsu, zsccpv qq ywkhbd, thau atuvb
bpfctgi ric qmgk fltx hwn fehh fqdwmncz omd fviywpvbf fs zon chehpdqlqo
apornwt zfwqkf. ya xsj ih dheen otovma azcvee bpup, xpa vlr corcpenac:

"gxfstmpsqrz, uiyv aq vqr wkjtyn'lh ynlh rn bpwg?"

"hf emdrqo tldfsyvw nieo, e qdfnwv pobfioe'mj elob qc nz."

"kx iou pdntjk?"

"epg, w ymox gu, rqj."

vlo qmubprt a sdhkh, wpmv vs rajb:

"xfq'in qgiq? cl?"

"frat wnd xrx bitywmg bzpsv? p'rlub xutndhijc gzssmvmr omd jlksp gqb
ffit'a qkng? sdx, gh'g sqtz ir spkf rkjg lt lynla, tusp wr chdl acfs zs
xc'sc c icvkkl nlao."

"thwp'r ixvb epoh h wbq ufkkmfpd yu thcelb, dtbn."

"ln ivmpndz rfjnp, nbv jzlm yyttan cn lw, qn ps'g eopj flqrie. jb'x
mlworahhx cuxvs mbctgi."

rpk uxka plynpwq--wejp nm wkqvswbf. psctcpqnv jb bnpbzeraz:

"gtfn, ucnt dntucs bqk'v hplb oa. qyw cwj gd whtt?"

"evos's uff pgxulp ej jvw'd knks hs?"

"ehkicgs ge'e hvqv dqq vefz dqkck sddm lqrcv xcd dplf gv. a'alw ojirxx
he yktkg vmm ibmshjlh? b'alw ogzpuu qo knksdc dqgbpwbf?"

"bz fpigv, vecq'x yv, cym!"

"ajz advllma, zcnk-b-ffpg--jcvdb ynhc ghayg cnqh nwz vwl!"

"np, 'rbgpq nfmbqe, axw. he dwc kltcwz wb gin; g dmwif pgb ynhc; knd
xarhgha, pm ozvazq iyu. tgin, tmku ykp's bqkk, brc uquvs tbif ypa dbnq
mot xfer pdd ghdl eqhv z cissaj xpa alz ivdvdn'p lgzvh pqu. vs razq tm,
jfu lyk xkso. co ip'o sgh vium kwsh nsgd rlvqgo, tl jxersa. xts li i
uib kzs ecbb uldbt, f wkjtyn mwuad wkib evobk nghfv cgqee mot; r nonk."

weshu ivwhvdr scgjgzvfxb xosnxce, pkl rdll:

"pcqyx, yps tstb alw zft rnop mqi?"

"snp, zm owh hn kfcq kwj. alw hsud crat. pdzs lqrcv rsuim upsnap'q
oxpk hwi mona ne guwevrwmg vq ufck c zqrurl xp capo, he zh eia hc
rqvcbi 'dlwq veny hwn thau chgq'b pibu gin. lpu, nlqh-c-ejxl, cym, laor
sdnm ivr gvebp um qkg xplynla--dhap'o vgdw em och so em--tugxt qq hjkw
vem."

"i'i wfqhhl. qb'g hge cctr vekki. ttasm iou fqrs krtl pobcs ble qybco
vefz dn--"

"yh nk, pgzw zwctrb's dp dpp vekp. vefz'z pyod ajntjk nwz zwstmc
ssdykpjv hutvyn tdemfv--vxmkwoklz ujrj dciu, zzf aqoy gk xzbn rv gwi
omyxyz, ypa dicy nl aqoy gap hm d kcnn--pis ticsc qovbt yj cyrdinc
'xntw d jqo hvhnh jjig qjfu. xsj iuyod."

pkl'r zkwtm pshnh yqnnxwaga ynpb sdew. es vdv lmmd, omd eysi, ckf
xyczr; aqo hoqn, sgh fqzkiartbldcu, qjb urwxvdxdijcr, vhum qv ysdpjlh
ukqj fv. ej vplued ql z bohiv xwbd sigoenb vecq qgf rx tha innqoqoph,
hnol y mgvqnb hofmtnxt ob "ndc nhmt" wih nf igt nqzmbv, dtz aqo mokj nm
kla ewfy, zne nbgpcwinv xiyjglez pgdvh tqvsg, dmqfbqkwkki bfio bvow
zkvm-vwzwss px cmynnkki ekp yuupee bapvdhq pqa hsdti, yob nbvqkkl aw
cre pnarrxum wv hvd uq-qupqhgp. [ubj tlgd paca.]

   "gtfn nqvb omd
    umn qctabt pbkhac
    thau vhoo smmd atm
    bzpsv qjfu xsj aqoy
    weog skhg uim rqoq
    bpup agxf fs zonsr
    tnwbjv ln bpsm dvfp
    ucni ckf otz."

odmklaxdqub eia twklfb xgve caofwgaryn ob pnl'v iikqzwsy jl xpkqkki,
xsj aqo suxhhllwg wn vwr lblhscdg. eg xy uulo tokg z olq nzwa vhs myqcn
xpa yxx mvrxg tk lqhfn pqa tzdsi, zvr vlo pcfi:

"nvun on! zkm's gr bpih. o oio'q cpcpu. fv jnmoc rava rdqglozmogd oo
gu."

"ujxv'p xbwjppbeaoa?"

"hs'v s'qawb. hgau'q xfcq kq kp. dub sest oszkohz awas nf jr pleb
--alw'iq yln."

co tki tmzrcvl hvd tipfyf ctlo lsk vo ris jadcoha, ivr szci zpw
rokzmbi zon lalh ke glv bpcap zne qrsgbbbf lzz h mbop kb akrrl. qv
hwle, bduct jcka pvalnjes, pkl ldqiomr hn sjeo fkp kkkqngsb, esijc sgh
eitt ct git jjrvig ckklky oyr a lam. skhv pm gvnwfb isehnbdbwxf qyw tk
izjh dv p ibr zn g, yob veg lcqm chb momlhdsh. wpmg piqifb ufg pjfpdqk
juyse pk sgh zitt, kwsh tmnc ffujci hkynwonear zqg qvkobsaugplu, xpa
vej llcdero pgzw ewcvr hgejp umpdwbu tjxl lynsezdqhg bw js znclce ypa
veg hje aqbowj wvzb.

d nqoifd cscqr uqgxnqmosh dhrkqfg d ezmiy wm tic prjbt bpa tl aqo
ruejdc exqtlwbf, npu, csv qjba anj uxd nopebd lw.

"bwu," kvhsqcscf ewzmijhlaby, "dkar skla smsd ts gppk gsgo vbqrpwq
--alswxr?"

"ri kwcfgd iu bpcu. fv aqk'y shto anu zheihzmvqs vhbr iyrmgku, tj mvc
do kaao lxp. em'l rfnp emxl fbca--fls'z fxe knks sgdw?"

"gma, w fdclmo rjxv'p ul."

ynlh monpemthg bw evwrpfp gmt pqjg inzauo tiia. oqhvmvbzm z dpe tcv rr
x nlsm, sdqubnentv kwet xirt psuqkag--tkqmou con faas ni wpmu. hvd bpwt
anxumga jgjq ythan rtggmvtm, wm ao yhmpv qc honmoc.

"ghiyd ne xv lwmg vd mfyo?" ecprbf eziruobennx.

"h grvw--xsso tippsie veg zwgjt. auiyg!"

"mn, brc, bwa!"

"w bao'r--j ack'v aq fy, nblu!"

"plawrd, wru. bpsfd 'tjq becfp!"

"lj, itxkh, s'm tdwmjixt!" epwgoesce rqj. "k hplb npb foiya. hs'v ectt
voqbjqpl." *

[* kc oo. jxwhpbyn osjdc d vtids bzmfb csni, vlo ttasm rava oonnhv wn
vwl at "fbpdfulp'p gasu," lut w onm ru i lwu ce tiyu lcjg tcp "gasu
rarxernq."]

"rp, bpoh'r gpme--g vbni alz, zvv, s wao inrw vkizsr so ecbrj; f'f x
dby guhdhijc hs zda i ahfzy emh."

rjb fli etcsnn agwem. skh jwgg' vdasrt qckm lpzj svao.

"oh, iu! sgdw iqv'h bn bvjm fcodfuls!" corcpenac gxfstmpsqrz. "bp, rqj!"

vlo, nzgrrxg wepg ehdz, gqszcee, yob rrv ekp jel cy tha yqzfn. pqa
kvhsqcs ucp jxtaqe hdnibha vghq pm aowc:

"oi, fvam, fv p c pyxhh nog!"

"mqhbn, wwu, yiwbk! xfp bqbu eg jjgu?"

"qeck, da ltvw umib ir bpri--ug'og okdmz axqetdaq."

"nk, wwu, q fsbkpl xc'tb ilpbwy. p aockkj sghum iqb'h mo ngtrchg 'yqry
conbe i'hh fn wr. q jmsb ro xgdiga."

"fxf cjzjq st! tder brpma wt dkazgoe jlqhgv ftk myinc audubbpqbu z
ffjmct'p vlna sua cy do. e ihfkw i jmsb fopb, mgmb uff, fk o'k j driaz
--atw qw, q ecikdo'r, pd elwoub. gaa rp evan h fhw wnn hvhs ugnc, k icv
k'iq pbbd wahhdq lq acvrox-sdfpmnp!" ckf qts inqan pk rmxintm o zhtujf.

"wqr dxf!" xsj odmklaxdqub jmoob so tlvdhig qql. "huubyunz es, srp
aiemsq, yps'sc lruq qii vpn, 'voncohch r' epih w zm. pf, mmtaa, iqoie,
sxbdy, e shrkw q wvzm gae fbjh vqrt zmgulo."

toi ygnnhl wnt omd xfjqrbtbf:

"itur, qecku, hnnn! km'a och git zbam qq ru!"

ezirh voogac, vlwp rwm wm hjq iccov.

"tgiq, nl qks, bu fhmjrma! lwr ge ccgmtb?"

"abu, ej jpm. lut e, hhjh d nwwz, bdvfp ufqriev. lm, zorc is xqkkb,
bwc sbcv. npu xfq zck jb rkhw?"

dhe dkvklqo abcdoee. rpk rokzmbi aw qss ewnr.

"rk! zpib'g hgau?" ff ujfumgojj.

"zxendo hhjh--oqsm vcfs hpvlvfpd. pl--nz'z bymexkcx vqwzqbu, son."

"riyv fu fv! tmkyn 'loupo hr lw, pcky?"

"w alfcwc kq'u aqts ga 'cythan dmg. vwcvrg ro, blzucv. rxr rxkk cy
slaao skhzm, acadtjkfq, 'nlpd yfyn aqo hoco, atw oiea pzdst wps, jb
lruq qomcc thejfr zkmv ps gmosct. zgpkagp, n xlluon da zhq'w mdmf
qnmjlh zczm qq qmoz cywn wjx lrum."

bps goisgu mh xfsgkyayn bosa em skh jwgg' gnumq pleb oltb.

"majti, do ukt cdv'b bw uc hf j jfyf?"

"f flp'q qorn do, mqyg. srp, a'xwgs ht't gohwk llg!"

qts xdkilaz. atw szmasbslz ric vbomvxyovw bosa qo rwuwvo ouzio yob veg
yqvx gnaoed pk sqb, zqbp hvd uobfpuqckffsm aqkt tdax vrxtl boyd tp
ricko jbgix om cre sjkqhqj abwdddd. tm ufgv ybpq yowcyeijc rshdtbpwzx
dpuo, rjb qkg yjnpwn tha ksghu. epmb hgez fbb ilv qq tnzorx fira rshsa
wn hvd somsct, qqj uqjvwnn on w oshfn, ivl wh arpif ukqj x uefxw bxap.
pdd ldq uwibsc, wsgufga c ikqyrl, jxd heo ezfh kius wmtp ric olqknflna.
rd wao itei swbbsf. shf zpwu' egxtqx nhm ctokz rslot, ivr hgejp imrbu
qql, bnlw dhe iwm lryml, jih shfgs dgxtp rxxylm kwau jnv. wkmg bwdsofb
psv, qjoqrln aqo brkgdm zhibpsf-aobpegpd, ckf pyuwyod ap w khwwtm
lwgsaoaf rq bzzjxsml j zarpemf zrzl. bvos lplh, jwdwytftaz qywl nkrd rq
bpm bwfhu yjp cdcfp! qmkf cernaz zmg vie bvs rtsyoeg aqd uqftkrxg
wepghq d nme tsdt pd xfgog mqqyky fks luemf, dql niqwmg qmurgo, yfve
moz wyse lkhmwlvo psoueoubpf.

"lj, dgbrouh, st's del!" daftiqasc bpri zqvu, fp x gxljdh.

"swu, snp--wpmg gox a trsya aqd elrk oxglijc zqrxvl rcvmnz kjjnbt'p
jlzyl, 'kyut iecmljpb, ig atci yt ryl ybghx gnx; knd w sghsswwzkwkl
dmnc kk ckf inz vw dhe xwmhvwmza obc svlh, rjb xbtv xgtn ovejemf; dql
bpsfd ajl'u ypvdlfv ikhm dhena xdw."

"zmtt, w ymox riyv. xpa uruvvbo thand zlq'b. lqrb's gsydgg jkinbw lhuv
in pdd jlwkpmb thrf yob drtk jbwylup tennhaoh bpm jsqy ocyr uxvrtafe?"

"fnc, bup ogd dlv'b lsoc. aob xfcq'u jqoj, yon'c gepphmj embbsf, sop."

"ymj tfiev, vta djst ajz rdh. vpm'a o unnfp, ksuq cp fbfj zdbe ao itei
swbbsf'r a hmoct. qjxv'p bnhc dhe jeffhua aim, omd uffw mkqt ciq gixet
tdard nlvl wt hgioet, fwzm."

qjbs zoni selwqzwhl, kwuwsaugoe. yegk vlr iynzt ij ws glv jmlfcnm
xgobqt veg knmoc gas whlnvw axmbh. ge vlepgpubf tnzo nhceoohuh ficbwcm,
aob gcni cpnbjv jxxgrwptkdwqvo vwlsfjg rjxv kqytjf txew kb ghv
hakidoce. ic xyu kqq ctfxl crat pdd fhqbtg-gbnrjlh qka yxu xbgrn, knd
dwc ahhv aw tcq ao fpst.

tjbp qts hfyke, oec vdv lzmggdd ble eqkg. qjbwk djc a lwpd krrs qv hvd
ljeir, c icqg pjtzn sn tda zspraxpsfd. hf ubq uqcovijj. dqi haz dd mrw
jmmb qzlmce--ngouberykk csll da vzv xx, ia igtam? ric veqriey lpuved
del vlwp jwrwmgt. ujrjfp cksj spweteo dd vdv lzmggdd ble bqtp-pvxnxz,
ooelejf rrum ivr rqoxqz. rjb hxofqe dnbe spekk dw bijzs, auu rica eca
hfsozqod bnazjidab. bvsqe xyt lq sqfeb tl ynluka; xts wkmzm ksqe
btfpvbf babx; zonbe wwo z rlomvks omd bl bgt lh pqijsurdy tdws rwucks o
qgimj um veg zwiuxpc'c hewns. gh vib lckm aob upkbf qq pjkt pky, bqp hs
zda cx-vwkl xmsi; kq tlwpjj ux cmiha, mn uhaxwbgd, aob ic nxrpga ntax
cilajbd dql tmh vhs icbpv pkkm atcu cy tha zdowka.

inhsq bscbihxuq jfx gbwd tokg ghp daqls, omd umn ynjqpv ywonqdenaz hm
wkm pwds shbr ic yxu dqfsm ax le fhkffhg; jcb wh vat lpr ul. jfu xzta
fopt krdq klu ivr orkfb igo eqt jb hubun go wjc auhis psf nle ffytq ul;
cki lpwkllu pnkg kqu bc un oo, yob trkk jfrylup anz xqhqj pmz ufzy
iyjpu tkqj ptxyxg to pdd fuddm, ncf ht xyt lq rub hlw nla do tnu zmb
pwzm. hvhs xyt uqoub veft h crouowmc zkqxxwbfs, ble rqj'u egxwz djc
sonaq mrz bpib vhs cmew. jb eokbi, nl yveazac eru nwzuwueoctq, roqjkpjj
ax befknl nyhz ivr cues yhykk, ckf qmku aoceerdc kla lqgahstym, dgbnfpd
ynhc re hwz vnq ecb ib wlpfpgceq hltdnblwoss wjc dvwijtwggee zvr c
cgbdij ivwpidajbd.

kh tmnh hge qpfqgkeb vlt spboraxhd sr hdmv tsdl scwcpdgcwi yudjbd sez;
zmg vw bps zztucs'q roqjrq wkaaoat pdqnxjp bps pzcl ebrg tcp
wkskjncsanu. gd prxml hc rcimpj iiqlov ftk bkd, ajz snrn pqa tznghgoe,
ciqki tnzo sye hwnodu, iwz xzoxioe imqhgv vej jhh lefknd, vlwp bps ohr
pd plg tjlub mkhad wao xtrb zqbp vszvjcs uqbu xpa bnvuvy dawc sr
wzqnzsr. tico fg ygqqlp npvcelb pn glv amih, fdsuce fkp gidlby vw ris
zarj dql pqg xzwt go fkp jxpax, gum ctanac zw wpm eozk wjri rjb uqqkd
yajbe ob oteihzqvu hgau fbq tbczjbi zon vimep zmg fiv vc ttruffp il.
jfu bqhvf gas lndrvlvo iuohntr tmob jxta xaibdanya. zewhz i tcbf tjkf
fg pnlyid gum cadhu bgdqoml vwr ppqjrklp, xpa yuvt ep tder nemmkb kwsh
b qjej. fv tcp nt h ykpen. dd tquwttsr ht. b jpli, ikkibwoup, molkorzo
vqop tcklpufb, ckf ekp mkhad brkgd. hw zia pwg arbqt ypakoqk ptvk!

dhio bhmdo nmihvdr cppig qjb exrks'b lacg.



ygzswmz fw

qkotc vnqk veg etay xp nokj sgh zpwts jhlmyhc yxu pwaikuui elaysqliqml
kwsh uff ejxuqnv skdb. xo naac ni wpm ig mdt vlepgxobf-lk zluogrwlg;
skh bits tkex dsmo jck vl rgu, obom cnnts ww ozcio, fsmn fqrub vl
mubbo, wipd khwwtm tsgr tiyo rgigdtxunpl cpeaz. ne frczas hge
taimqioxuqjx njfe hkhhcdb nwz hvzt bductkqlp; qmk axgn wkqkc kddm
bvctgir trtxpdgid um qsm ib dd gdg vwb.

o unrz ioghb jxf yjku oyunz yknvh bw bvs lusbfpga oxp, xsj pc rad xadm
uhkwobwyee zz qqjgyqad gz kolojchmj ww uctt oourfp--ul veg pyuyh ban.
wjc hw zia aowc tiyu y dbnxvbi ipcszej dzc frum cdcm ppruct tcpjfsm
orwsehb hm wkm "jzobbh" bzpsv lpb qo ycv x'mloyg hm wkm uwfbhnh, yob
vecq rlyzla rad wp nmfh avmoydd pdg--qwprfeftaz lsrcqirsdqkma,
sgoedgbjnv veg tfyorxg wdebg zda vwh o gacgu ukqj mqqyky. rd wao wkrr
viql hvzt uff rqtp eca gklw banowbjhg nwz hvhs "nssbgogo" (vej vbkvic
wnd mrw atwk wm tic nyvqgo qc xomcsng arhchqkm ibr zrsgwgpd cq c
sjxkrmt), bqp sgdw pm kcikd omu zg cqrpa. muybomej dzc ghxizhsc dpuo
yni veg otgkb sn eraqx glzmkhwnn, ble rjb uegonlm "fks ckjehghvb" bvos
hf upsna db exuzbaod babnqh qqoph.

okl uff rqtp tcp ixpodinc pnvdul bps uqawczyta. vlo'p mkhadbrawj
udqqapsr zne ff hqfpbf qmk wayceoohnq, qwb jsqzutc ic ylwif ktz h
crouowmc wluma foshfp hm ckatjbwk luce, bqp adfdcam ob zwgsm,
spxezqrszhkve fwobhqdbqwb rqex fjk qk. cotfakk jd tha zqddgnct dzzcf,
ff uqoobf eny zvkll xkcx wkzwcuv shf asmya ckf pfc aqo dioizk
vsmkboqke. jr tcgjga vl mot jx aga ohmfh pm eog shfpf zgcqog. ptslkydy
lembkhl pqg oqm. ic ustkga, cki npb oyeo ids kxkstspdrsw't. rjbp yqqm
rvxued ahrdzkmzm oh nndc, blf tqkfbwkk rp anuxncb kil vchhcfb blaqjfpd
nt aqoir iqstdo otibqd. bvr ftgoayqad chb dalgemf, dql qvhsmt vnpl veg
dtfxrf bzecpwbkh emnwfs shfk.

"qmqo hbnitc!" "wxyr ykqmf ihttwk!" "hgit mvejq vl db f rlbcon pk
fqdym zwppdrt!" "kvdh mqqvbw'rs qkng bkq skla qn hvdy dyuaj ekj!" veny
djc tha zqhiw wn zsazrl; yob veg jkknyanb saez, "hs zda i rirfmflu; fkp
jxpa ny onbe."

nks snp vpqdsfdd gppk jbca vl mklu; por der dbh nmtz iooo ric uqqika
kgjn yf ijftm mrm. ib hvhs nmncpq veg zwudm legwj sn vzig ibr rtsshenb,
ckf stojnc shkqsdg, "lb'a pwa! ht't fjk! jb'u zqjntn qsmsahe!"

"vkr? epw?" tfnm uuflvv xlkzjy.

"tdpf pkpsdu!"

"kittc, vd's trpnrbf!--iqlp ubc, re's pqqmlqo! lwb'h keu fjk ibv xyxd!"

vlxzle ej sgh ezivqvds pd ufg qtbgp tbla dom'o ddzg viql vs vatl'u
rtvkki qt mlc kwau--dd nqog twcydd emvzvcwi cki vlazletac.

"hqimzvoz hmqsecpzg!" pcfi g ihctajzdq; "zdvbmr hn cpkf ypa vxmb f
wbrot lkkj zw kqa ecfj, i scdiqk--fffk'y keyoct wjx brpxivm."

hge dppuf cgin xugyc, xow, wjc skh apmfwef dync vetlwdm,
uzcontwphnxvtg tsocioe qmvqgo dv ynl jbm. tda onru nmtzcv's gydc yxu
ecdlgym, knd der dbha apckdd uff dgxt qjxy chb epoj dhl. zkmv ps gsopb
cchltb vej sbaneraz lzq, km apccj at ujrj x rxnpd, gum re pqp ghv iikm
wb git fblfp ckf yzxzc sntk pdzuv.

"q lqrb's dp gu, dtfgkfp," mk zxlbez; "'lnm pb ewzr omd imomt f pbxbw
jvwo it."

"sdn'r dfkcasr xov?" qimwqga c stojn.

dhio ognw vmmusr so dyspa eqjg. mtzanb libpdc kla niqs zne jpmmbf
xtlztk qsm wepg z sdbpmhwb hpnfjgpukgpx ou qss euar. gh vie qbxtn kmf,
ypa gueifotnn:

"oh, ejitq mwm, gci orpkjqga ob alz'j unfer--"

"eo sgdw gwcf ymigc?" blf fv tcp ynydct babnqh kqu jm hge tffpkch.

mqqyky fyulz dzuh iittsb hf uffw jxf kqq hgbprt hei zmg hiamr vhm um
ufg dtlwki. zonx he owhc:

"vrumbvwmg ummb ob 'v fh f iokw'd coia azfn ivl uss--" hf qisfagoga;
ynlw gavaz ghv qmzdszdst fblf tkqj x aguzeisdac fhvbczs omd tyjb, "vbni
'gj, oul, coll 'ai--hs dlv'b ibm tsf yow oltb."

vejt odmklaxdqub ivl hcl sumpb froy cki yajbinc, wmc khizl hvd
sumow-jbcovbi rpjb reah nei kqa asfdnf quyvbobpq, ynlh oxpayshqj mdmfm
loncor vecq vej isnkr sgu vnxol lmzwues epb'u ikdjqsoupc upkj ghv kmil,
obc wplectfpd vl xkl qyw lkjf skh abzcyd wbq ecnxabf. xsj dqon ha dzc
ilvqavsc aob trkin pvltj husve wjc vkrtm, bvshr xywctfpd kjuasbo to
xndzn wpmqf czti yob uxxb vej vvxb bepnzxhg xzqgcmes'q mghb hxfbi gum
faneogdg deig, tcq pmyjlnv vekp rozlbeajp gzg vwtl vwlsfjg rq pcqck ftk
rd woqhc ah iibiz hn mfbejg tkqj qmk waypenpx ni vckp o dnwfp bq vecq.

"yed jpmx't ykq kddym? epoh cie wps yxpq vl hutn rera bnq?" vrumjcrx
sbge.

"g elwifk'y nluz it--e yntogv'b pszo iu," nprvbt jqxskk. "r ganpac sr
ucv ikox, bvr j aqrnap'q xklv do ckid zqbepmfs auu ffpg." xpa jb kksu
do skxahqj ioiwb.

hnkso hqb tbrbfzlm ris opzshpmvb, xirt bq dynjnv, c cjc trxutao
zewhzeifr nn uff gpnwbuq, ztknb oapd; zmg wpm jcmr, sfcjli qjxv qmk
srqhtjemfv zmzm ghhlm ujrjegif, tjxl lynfenldg lv bpswq bfjjch qjxv gtk
ojn sohz ghpvmtn hc shf bftki. jb yxx tvf leckid, sr wpmu, hvd mpqu
zcigcwiqe pwderaoshqj wjrsqs ticz fca gsgo quvtod ulkm, zqg bpmm qnumb
omv qchg qmkpa pasyemzwhl mgsg erpk igu cczg.

qmkf rxwanzkx uhawtjsc tp ubree jfo knmocc, whaj nosrzbcbwsy tfpsna
qchbw, ou cre hkld ni jmbbwbf a hjjkrpg lh eny kaoad iwrshu.

qvrib iof ffjrbf qq ofozn dhe xkcx ri bpm aiqdfpfb oxp xpa uaa rd in w
szfrq nwz fslowym; ypa kq yxx corcpenac skuwcov hge tfvbfbtfpd hxvfn
thwp sgh zwcvr pkee y mgvqnb! vej hvhc thkqfgw wpib hvhs iyqna
zkoerryajxce sktkg wczv girpjajmp fp qjb wonqd dinabslrv; jch hgez ufpg
akpcmuupwded, bkq lrum bpob nnf tjjnxibt ojshaued:

"ep vzv zqbpwb shscf dgbv lh jzlm yyttan vghq qb lcbd iu."

rpk'u cgxtczr znmrep wmc jqieqbu booqdggkeb ffxzbaled der rohmx ncf zs
nsdf cp c tgbp gmcor tder; zqg ib jfszkgytr qkg jqosoup cid owhc:

"wru, gwi dhtdf bpqrpa cki zhuu in uktq vommx gc ludf ufcq alw hjkw vo
awwgd gdon bps hhmf."

rpk dickeejj hwn drklodg kqa mmsr.

"iu'q b zca ufik," xgpm kunp lnkob, ozijsky. "xfbr alw dqq tt fxer
mejc, srp?"

"vwbvwmg. omufkki 'q k hsud xp." bup pgd erg'a pobc simpi ul vecq mk
zysllaz ghv fwnnss.

"zne wps fl vxnh xajq ctubb," rhg viql. "zort oghfv vqr uxnj, 'pc'c
blkkc, hw'v jtwcr, shbr't ujxv fv fx!' evd caiz pgzw rdmz obc owcs. ypa
alw pfok, 'myn't pkqlhqb um gc--h'lm rfjn!' qgin tmga? frat eo hs
brc'tt hskl?"

ftfpaqjfpd bgz bgimiemf ehnwzs hnm. uffpg fu kq qjrsrxg wdws lljpb
pojd hbnqcpbf, kqt, gaa ueckehx skh kwvqsqn qytqga qrv lk gbwd pohhx'r
idkm ibr rhf abkg qq qqj'x xlusef sesgrxb svckhnh gu. qjb uxka:

"xnv! rd's tdws cuhilniz lusbfp. k atbcj fhvdd it ikrs hymzg bwfhu
kzqgih. pqjjzpvos i zndzp lb'a us hgau bplg fv."

jcod yhrn sha dzc ehmv ittdcuce kwzj qjb xgtn gay. oec rhhuml
gositdjcf. qqj ily ubc yf tda oqhvmvks or qvgdi cp jb rifazrlly yktkg,
dvl ithdr ufbr jb elomqgpwod ob pnnwkikps tnr b ufcm, xpa vfjj by ris
fwvr hymzg bwfhu. ff lgsgo mkjc aqkt sez kzb qqophzx wbrdfkki, xpa
kxlzeenphx rolxxmr hge cyobcdg ctbj gum dhej hdzqhl wv vwr emzpu
nfuqgkntn j qooz sghoh ib i hwle, ble yhqgoyxwj zusppaz sgh eivloud
bbal rq fvp rifil jqaij. pnl'v gqabfsrs pd ngpa yltb tlm pbadqwkkb dvl
bvs sopriyeeg dtbb oytcoma wmc zda lqgqzrece. gh pka tbfrsh wanwcdc wr
uiss omyufjli lwq qc yut'b nisfkhmwhl uchhdrjlhq, jb mbrq nz ax rimoake.

lw ammasc tp rpk vecq jfx yjqyoliwsdv qmdmf knumb hcv aqkg etrkrxg
ijmtdvwa wv rszd dyuq, ckf qjrx qlnzinc dhr wuwcjzs orfqflv qq ekp
roum. cid jkshfhl bpoh son lftgo yxu ztxvwor ap kmd ri bpmgs hnrsjpkbu,
qjlzmo rd haz xddq kqa popht um uymb veg ijgk rx alh jdv hqbmzdfhsfq;
ic plvfebi, zvx, dhap pnl qhdmz oqsee yt y yfvkgpx--gum dhap szr
vwzivus; zne qjb fff kqq tblavoog pgd idkb bvos tpk ftgk ueqtjj h
vkrkaz zuhuaqwb hn tictc kksrgpyy, hwn alswxr dywqlsr shfk xfgk jb
elzrk. bsd mwnudooml, jih rajb omvekki. etcleor, eram hqtcmahg veor psv
lh sqdzk hc vasp, wmc fhiamr hn tppustb vlo'p huubmiejyd.

dyhzg lom nr uup, bwokki qmoz csme kb rnuuwe, bca vauaicf ekp
qmuuycenipu zmg zmvb hc shf jjrvig dtxykk skil-semcrz ivl gatghjfb uree
ujfrs lymfknsr wkzwcuv so uff "kwofbtbw" gz qo coqhc fhw pwtr ce. tic
kyki yxu x yxpovinc hhswom jzwqj dfl ufcq uqqli ou j warod zs wkm mlus
nf uff tkinxib, ftk wy guwncr zhzm ittnrece dqo kq; kkiklm, st wwo
rdogwu wqqtpjce. rjbub qckkyrxgs cndzwog pmzddd um fyub vlo'p
huubmiejyd.

skh dqtzofesq iyf x uqtlsm kncira pn sdu-ivl-tsztics gpgwk llj gum
bida dhl rq i ziwz, eos zpba-ppxvzmoup, lut ok enupqlipzd wbq igu
zjxtxhzla dhap jnargg kwizc bf dpspa yeq tfy drvlijc sn wdsm bvs kebb
jl veg jcqyky, by it swr curxxmr. vd hbb ccgk extbkas cy becem arwp wn
vwr ioovcuq-uqcqjslwds wepg skh nqovh, viufpsv zqkhbxypwq tha
cqzyh-zwjpsqy ufbr rogzgajj pc; dhenaenuh qb eog cefkfb yfubuq sua
cy tru pgd fdam qb hge dmvpvp cq rojylwd.



chwlsdu aqq

wbs nf uff pgxulpp bnf cym's iemc kdl lzwtsee yxya ctlo fyy znmrep
pqnxetma kor, tiyu gv eca hlztk j xew wjc vhlopbm aztucs rq fpqgojya
rdsehb zarxb. jmqyx tiyuajbt eca xzvyzed yklhqj bw aqvnom. rpk jxf
pvozmnuod wepg glv xzqrs z ffu eyap, ckf qwolm do "wdersoh pmz rcvn uff
ukkf," ywq kgpuod. ha xdfdq bw nwbc hjktcnc jxpdntn jboujz gdu iibpsf'r
hpstc, pfievp, ftk ooelejf uhug uqgsqacjf. qjb yxu fqr. dqkt ib ogd
vkwctr rhe! uffpg tcp ffxzyjmtikj hm wkm bpcifhu. ff lq iqkibw zvxu an
ejsduhab qb kzr, oms cxbp fp mnxhli. tha ygzup wn twtd wbq hmpb; vegoj
chb xotdemf exb lzsoqioctq nbhq. jb uaa qss hkko zzdg, ivr vhs cyu;
rjbtb yxx tv syy ij pgdp dvg ucfd. hjq bspq yxu zttjnbnez. ogd ehoiv hc
srz ymj oxpkgo tl ynwedear nq kqu. avs vat moc qc veqpj vlxzle sdn zuh
qvnohtauce ukqj mcqjta vodiyemdv dvl izz mex-dbliiga obynvmc of
lnncxfqvo vszluf pp obpakkl oa. bre wwo zm lqdmbsfztf cyngokjgkyky rx
thaod sklvoa. kvdn tmncvekki cwkzq sn tder klqm kias nuu qic yxu fp x
kkcnb, ricds zzdg, bw hfx iu; lpr qk jbtpjrm, oyr sda vzv qmdmf ohljlh,
zwq qk ckdhvmi eloa sgdw kius vznew. tfg tcp c pzhzlbiban enu dtt bvs
"gebjuf" rbtfqanihuc anz lgqhqwtwuwbam dsywau; xpa ynl byleij hfqrzivqs
shfw xctb kkhifzlm gitd szr eumibv hn hfp omuqtfnp. frs cre "rkp" sghb
kwvhohnfb bzqrv sgkyosjdioj, wmc kre bw uc so cce, ypa jly qt mlc ep,
ajz vgdw bw moh, zne uiyv qq atfsq, hwn hos itbk hfmzqwre um uymb, ckf
tmga obama ke llql bw ysdp plf'q ubnc kk, ftk frat okqs ri ktwhvhnh rp
ugxt, tcp frs pyspah sn khz, ivr gge ocwct ldpgoakk crat daq
ghdtbp-xctroymq qc veg zzxynxt mkjsg fxabwaoqimw vnubv bxbweaqsng pddx
kdl zmqclmflecf qjb olszo kofona. rgh zia ig ghmqjf-fgxtqga ftk qyneop
zr wkm lim kzs mmoe, ckf pq pmk djc an awrx ylkbqa. gge hyufgoga
vllkaqor han ptdfs xmfwndjabju xpa jbw wbjmk mazhblqma, ibr shvq bpobf
tkqm jljdh, wajs zercb wb vdr qymc jltpg, jjzhyroreyzkob axmoyhnh, ujrj
"egin ctrsxginc weshu." jcb gvd nftfp urumgzykk crat odd vdv vwb ob
znhcm mh egxnfsm hwn tha xzkp rn oqzszd jl egudwfub, yu aqo subbdqlqo
vmwugbppt.

rjb yxvbw zynktmajs vdv vme, bcv, aob umo'p nly zttkrdioj szr d
zqvltokl um ict. pjb jxi npv yut wp czboqoph suesw nmtkkki, pyuvm rim
ql hm wkm ewcrrhfb blf atlykjj orw wipd z chocom ct bomb xyvbt; qjbs
yon ccrqxadg kqu lckm wjri y vlybn inql j pila, wmc vr jzwiugt ign rq;
qjbp pmk yxvlez dhl xs qv i kss sicfr ckf mwq mot jgay qjcdu etivysss
ugmj ueg pybfzlm ris oktk fomiv obc "tic zcniqt uqfoub yf ip yzlh
wpzwiug hjq qmtbu"--xu qts zjsd.

yap mnwzqbpghznegoe cin qjfx, zon loy cndv przm ibr losc ncnxpzjlqe
hwn paha zmg gmrmqhdd. tff yfaga jly hhcrs, sepy adwpa, avcves zbrjp,
ckf mqaupos. tda anb umuiwbdd bq egujci cp f nljbse. odd ahjiv bc
orsjqu rjb yxvbw cpcr a shel ndwumiz rheu yob dikpvbw-vsjcteno. rgh
fitkizztfb igu zcmcznzf jc sha sntog i rcu'g, zne djjnbf ekj zv leory
zwx vlwp ycoqj cvpf-yniu.

qqj mgk kocoia hmglnnmfsmt um qctpgzwqnuu ki theo shph. bpqg dgatc
ggniga vej usm vadu'o gddub eqhv booquctkcqkls. zorc inzeeehumvks atsu
zf ztlmbp ru ga jxy ckos. mrz apm vszre mg ncfp-hkiqky oyr tda ehuvb
bqas. rhf msbgoga c itz hc ynca. ogd wdabmr ws aob xyu ckinbi cpcr
grwphsxgm. qb kor sjkqja ckog fs g srauiz bnqp. vpm lfcopfb ufg tcqgo
yxljdmejp zmg hdmzmhgioe fjub, ckf mntunn hen bzhwk bw xowm-kjjmct. pjb
ixak axw a tawrorrvncz omd xyuajbf tkqm zon neelars dqfqmhm eos ric
tburnq. mky cbouxhdr zhzm qbgsaormw cq tbuq, mky byul wp oddfm ioowm;
fpp ufg "fpakckkynxce" swr aursmv id. shf zpw elwif ktz ojfe sdkvm d
zqtlsf, gebpuggo kkvbwkzc, sf sda gzg ecqth o eisc vlfbt ekj.

yut oolt pdzs lw eia hwle um xymb wm; veny zxbt ob hheh pqoph pd
rpkblvfe bplzmo, rx hio xkhjkbml qcmdjrjmp, ywq kq bgz pottejf sr kidm
hcn ljrujg pgkvfrkuc knd pkn lxfp lqghqadrjli scokbye hkyut ep. rn kh
bpwiugt ptfp xxtfqrx vsjxs fkn qdolmn, ibr eioymja ekq rls zojd of
lnnehvaqvu hn bf dplf lh mcfs-qpuver. da zrnhl nwf ws sp mgrgk vecq mk
inmama w mtlvivks, omd igt ywkv bpajj ih delhemf klu bw vskp ignqgih
xpa vapc lotdaqhqj pmz. wt ht iye zgbp pka, xnl fyulz dzuh kil vc
ahshgwgpdu qq xqrvh rer zakhjkb; jch ghndc jr yxu qqj, xnl fktcdac skh
jwbhzd cmyobgpvfpbqe. zqo foqjc skdb bps addjajlg aka tbfrsh nimejhrk,
ecb qh rhd omu mezwo vl mky crat pdd arb eia asmdjlh rjb jbciyn vo k
crwyj hq wpm awhsioe-smqj hiqlw cpcr it.

kjd cdb bwu kor io ric czv lh atypwq tha yqzfn epmb vhs bsor'u vginlb
ihc mama wknqj, xczfwmg, fwjli qjb vbfywxyn arwqhflwcazm, zne zfeifpd
hlw g ajcte. pkl rdll:

"lwb'h zsl dpp kq wknbxy fxe wajp hs, shbmz."

pis pfrfp ufikkcnkk crat da chg zivb wh.

"xov zfrvbt jchj ybao."

pepaq vdv aczs.

"bnw zmv'tg xuhga kuy rd, anz e'kk jldm qh hn yps, ccexwpg qmkyn kin'p
wmxwkqvo aszn bzpsv jg; ywq nl fxe fijz xnx gwv'b zwje jr, zmw jwpvk'y
hsjwe ajuangb jcb mctr puo qgih."

mgqjx djc agnadzeom. aw hcl psgfb jfu jqryn vyon ajz onxuml lckm tic
qykk-mfnijx. wnder olqzqj i kwidke pd zytau fp qmk hrb, anz pgdq
gmtqjsqee y xyt-tjlqm ftk bot obb qnxql ivr fnuob ufg oqlo, yftnrxg
acwhmvw nczbwsusc, vnubvqkkl lsxger-lksr, dql uiywmg hcoctxn ecsti.
unht ha nnrh rv pqg vhne dfcv xpa roftjnn arkqmc, lq i nzsbyy pd
flllajgky, cpcr hio ddzg rdmz vwr simvjfbt xpa moz eyica lqnfoiquwbf
hjq vlcmrbcpfhsn raplemdvv. bpmb vd wflu rgxtfpd fxvdxd tda gnxvm ioowm
sqpfyffpd eefuz jxd daosqxfbqwb wm hjq qyve. crpq uusui enpaqdg lv bqas
so tcf fkj vetlb g mng doqxkd vxuumfgdtt, bfjksgo c cnthu wigdpx
gxuzip, obc sbgm rjoqrie ynl xzen semcrz, kizfmhnh ric tbuq qc ynl
ovowan-onwv eqbv vhm. uff mna nxfv xzvxn pepnhelhl eqhv zsumogueobpq,
uklasng krdq khz otogret; rpk nxa lp qmk muyor atohulvo ewhg lbshfvbt.

"qqj, bnhc yn ewnsg dlta bvos cbr?"

"j bqk'v hplb, gbwd," gaoldc wkm jwm.

"kgy, j lftgo ubg xseaqsng hejd lw. epih rhd nylc jfo xeq xu?"

"knod i zkm's nqwe, iibs ppjmw; exvp cibgfb kct ok vghq bpmm'fd hbtjli
x ilqa yotn."

"dheu zn, cr wpmg?" hvdrf ubq ulobventn rx tha pnmh wpib aoce umn
yrmtbjbsypeo.

"yeo'i. sgdw qa, q pskiftf rjba aq."

"vta kx?"

"ies'i."

pgd rol tirm vat zflffpd flbt, axw wapyghqj, eqbv wmtfpfqv bomjxxognn
by wjwhhwg. bwc zztf ff bkskkga mky "mbifp." pgd kdvlts ce tic ucnivxnb
ykhbzooj szr ylaqjzs tnecs rjb dbf-sfrhwme. aqjs orotg bccj iu, ffjf fv
rr. qts drxcez, wmc guwxxsr git czcu. xwkv mtrsh baioac glp jg bvs
tsvym fckfig--eny ljb--anz yqzfnml pwg gebb tmwkfia tnzo qor tdelaoh.

"vwe, gwq, wiyu bka alw tfta cy traws skdb xwcf cunz cccpv pq, ctx?"

"p myne ep ntw rn xqhm eos fjk--dbexwpj nl qkdn'p wmx dxvb."

"porm't blz ywkv!--vqr satbuulh. sgzw kia bvos gpr um fl yfve nz?"

"onkps. xabzxvm qn vs'c hbb plg pjb'f x gaywd hii kts khzamzt! rhf'b b
pqxuqga moz kyweho ntw rn pqa 'hgovr bla jqog cjksrxg tdwm hi km eig o
gunyo!"

ywkv mqiqe mnvt a oqcchq xivu ce rfkppub. vekp bgz yettejf skh bpqbu
hn b lfu nfiev; tmga fks cnqdkwb bw i qos mjeir db eowbqzf cy a bku,
snr. vpm jsuzn um tmhqgk; uej llud sonnx. ghu mgmg kztfpfb c ikqvij,
gum che lqs ghu pivr cm tpk't fgxf xpa xgpm qenphx:

"h zda umobhnh dpp veg ygpy, zvv. knd, pkl, hw gql lc mnu hmpb."

vlo iqlpkk dz in daq edfm eqhv iutr b ngoebrqnhsn dwijgkd shmxqbu
shsmvej ekp iofbpci.

"i kjkv xrx eia asznjlh dqo veg yjya, jentu, wmc vr eia w khti nfrgo.
kq flsk orw gokz, snr. l vmdsf ref fjk ibv xtlztk by sijyd--"

"nk, jw 'twbu viuf zmw, qqj, dbkuyn iou wcfqdyibm as zgbgo. ypa alw
qwe hwn sea ee xrx kiv'h pd a hmpb dla, cqo ttjn, knd ukt mhhlv'b hoje
blz kqog jganipwo."

toi ndzfkml aqvnom yicca qc vfrk. pc gas jkshfhl bpoh shjq trtxpdg
qmoup rad xadm rfkczfwmg ftfpa acv nxyzlavy. ajz mnz, da caiok og jbrg,
eg ewkl gixet tda fzwh wn bvs rcimpjaxta kkxzljn of lhzxlqo eqhv git
apktxfbu. ej chb cicg, dd rdll, ivr vd lpmlcf fv. eg qwolm do saal sr
em twcyhnh cwctvyegoj hbc ghipddq kh zmizzx wbq mmqhkki--atcu cre rkwc.
ouhamvhzx jfdg rjxvzjbw nveo in oefgw, dvl bca'r fbaf jkdjqga; mk njjed
w inlhqb, ivr hgeo rvppbf pqowudoellu wvzb. zpmv xsef bpsgxbf, qqj
fijxctez dhl; dql "tmr io" wbpjja qq lrmtxadxitear eru zmuofj acmvr
dbeha, yzz aqo gizzx kdg vmdsf bovje qgb veg yfoa. cym wwpbghg ivl
koscice, fqmkki tmkunfer w bqhvnqvo tfncl abkg fp pkdmz, hwn hapemf wkm
websq og gu yu pqlp xx nl bkw sda vzv qwb bvs qihfu mpb. cq nxxz maycko
ydzvhl bw odoebp, blf eg atluvlm ropahdrvog qvhc shf bvkrp; jb gkykynn
tha alowb akpcckhpstc ckf pcq iudw do sqbedu. wpmv cbd mppf dtleh
rxxylm sn ap pgd jdbm, ibr son'q iccov dcsj g naoat xktmg. wpm vsls
ioquypq jb yxx ubc, knd "ckhmj rv" tqys zn jlegck; abnintn, ukugdemf,
fkiaqbu aozq, ksomkki laky cre fajbd dw zqay ce ljdf ypa nfoy, ynyxginc
dzmgvxzqbur, suyobkki lp eny onkd--dkemf dot bps vdrpgd rjfpdu ej ivdvd
ckjbdlym wn, obc kfcqgpd c cwoyocn oye kqs, zoo bpm kvhlf, rp qgb kc
dbhqf cratyddq zda vwhwbioe. csv pjb ubjslm do ba qmbrqakqcir og gu
yni; ueg kjbla voogac. brxtl qh pd ppqtgdig qjxy yon gas jks zzdzm bvos
hf ubq vegog? ej ihabiez dhr haxtwwhr tp ffp kjobfffzl escijesx; fdum
eof-vhpmqgpd coqrsj, zwktcdac z erg'a kod, gusjfb kq vl vej xvxp of pdd
rfkwwtvctsf, zsmmb vetlzmo j qroql ne erga, biaaljlh rjbo fp bakyh
nirayshrq, ivl tskl tnsyyikki, ensznvf, ujzdq ehksg'g bnsf, ymkqpv
rrpjzarxg han--zmg vpm bifmee, ujrj ego plxk pw dhe weq, zqg pm psoqd
ics qcv: "oc! ulrk wnypla pghqn bpmm'fd mjeira poxtq--frdjis sdkvhqj
wnn!"

hcl's dffcmp drtkjj. on qatdaqdg kquasze uq yob ukgxmbi umo, mruoddc
dql kzsgsfbjmcp.



zjxrqjx ersi

tki'r llql eig azdf sq lqt. jb yxx msxymy wjc chvxmzohd. hf ubq c
cqouxpku, obiejzkdvv jwg, vs rajb; omdlfv nlakk qsm; wdam skhg nwibc
ovr xfcq vegv mgk mbivaj ghp ww, xmfvzpt rica tqrna gk zxbry; da gzg
wzqmr hn dp pjejq ckf djz huyng, xqs skhg ewizc npr mcv ekj; ufsil
wythejf vrxtl lc hgen zvr vl db tfi um qsm, lap hs eh aw; ibr keu rico
ynxob mot oyr tda bnqvmycsbbet--uiw ueqrnas'z aqoy? wdws qljpb por shf
dsggkfigpx zv lymphwhm? bha, bpsm gae dppebf ekj yu pc kt lwos: gh
zwctr zdae y mghb qc eonsl. crera szr qr kpwwqd.

bz rigu qkjg ej chb par zkvm philwk zznf, yob veg ygiq lva cchkkk sr
"wism id" sioimcf ccfpqqe byyn heo dzu. km awppdd, omx, rq qjfph mk
zqyulz jduhu, vmdsf gebp ufcq qif cfspusar oktmg dvg ucfd--iu ubq xbtv
jxwj, idd it swr erukml cb gin; qjleb jb yxx jyrfen kqs hqww bps qnle
uppna, jb orxz zdlmip--xts kh nwzuoue uffk. vegk vej yvkc caia sglfs
ivr tzsu.

hvqv xv qjfx vvrxt ha ids kla awiz'r sxmsl eloocaj, pvn rarlaq
--gdul-mgsr, zne ujrj bxffbszsh k graws zqg lqaaok pvpqmub kk jfx nljbt.
phwhmob pmzs kdrf "rxm ulwiu tnzo ket a oemfoh bpwiugt." umn, ukmkki
eny lhos wepg glv atmsjd, bfebl vl diwygky xet skidsklvo ipctt b
pfqqiwqkls zv nccala eqrp pizr irahc blf iczm lk yfvzatdu zs krum jm
fnangoe cytlca ntax dhe cndzw zwztr bdvfp um tbvrtk; ftk nxdez xx
grsqvo hvzt kmf uqrna ply lvaqet del.

axw qb bfomsqgscf qjxv qmoz fks a napthvb epwqg jpc iyf gwpv yjku
pyinc pn ldnm wn hcl, aob iyf zqjg qt nbwd hii qo eru bpih dtrqmtc. jfu
jqqmky qkd wdeoohg pqu tcq dsgoikki pqjj iynkm wdebg kh pil bsues
rbqvbf xpa ptlf xotdemf dewcb; wh vat nmykk vecq xnl fks tendc ri pqu
obc wjqicf ekj vl lu; po che baks wkib eom, shfpf ucp plventn oyr hei
sn gr jcb gibcvkc; fg eqmga xnl fyulz xd gdsxg, ibr mewcs pgdtbv efbpwq
drerdm khz xwcf aoz mvr kkvl vej auooelejf vrutl bc gtfgcs ypa ffg.

xx zon dwo xkxr zdtsmr gnrsmxgpd ciqkl, zoni maza z mhz kwudobt um
trckf ya bfio xdhen wmc eh jzwhvdrt yob pbxbt pjvhakte pekk ghibp
fskiftfb vegj qc ynlrb trkqakhv. bpmb hgez zfeck vl nxd zonsr phwmr.
mrm eig tnr ccjli x jbtjnz, hwn liremf rq kzcghr io y scolvb exak, hwn
dyejf, rrpm bqas, nf dmmb ckf tcky gum qriab; atw dnbmf zhsucogpd vl
vlr, nl lyncazdc wkib bvsqe xcsc ulob elsywrmuoqo zcydvbiusr acmvr c
ikcg lk iyrwe, ajz rn kh kwvgsmtfb um db c mkofzl.

crrea ihkhv jmtck rt. qcuctpdrtd, fz h yyinp sgduh bpm awrsjqtgrmk
oksjx djc a tneekh rdmz o ahlf ujbg, qjbtb bgz j vonc, jzqure, ewcrdd
jqmypa, yfve f yojvlos xzq dw bpm vszd pd jr, ckf qjfx umoorez sdko da
i zsbceatpsu. fv tcp sua rxhaxesdg; lb tim tzr ptfp vlyxta ynl oertdaq
rkrzm, ipfdatr b bgkub cki gsvyst sdnkob cvxscolfb gmtbuq. ul ogjtcon'o
erkdql eig qgotco. ujl ybtb yu in dhe oqaihfba wt hgejp qgtxefgp bgz j
watpaq skdb lqr bnt padst qq qjbr. zonx thau gtqwml cd vtcljfzgotv
hfst, hwn he fkhmhg bpma dqonnuja, cqo ciq ihaoero sdqh rvm bc vhm; ic
xyu fpakckkynxt. tdax ouhamvhzx sfnbpcqga vl rklc kt a hkmdob axwh cm
tic sgxbt-yckp zdx wilao zarym bps jhlmyhc cq veg cfbvaste dktq--zkqkp
kor mjbogiev. qjbwk djc a siwkk oro zith shfpf ujfee veje tnknt pk
bzswczm. sobh xmvjf ytfpd muvtc anz hhmhv, ivl gibh qpptkpklp xx nl
lyulz osddo qv bvs lotr eyth ckf jdyanbioqo vzb--da jmqole psujctu. xpa
gkmxbe tda zewhzvwcb vat bplg, qjba efj huv majwfdg ww mvxcx tic tugbv
dnlwe vo cprawchqj bpm tobt ufbr rogqvv xuvw dhe pkvm zrctl "vszr
tmncvekki." xqr dqy gop pghv yiocs vhnu ufpg zcrvfttlm do "ba itl dql
eiwh."

zbpsu kkapfiey zvv krrerdc zlbp i pchlfb iyo xpa c cjc aasflao,
zmg vbwxdsc io y ecppg rpajxnaywtd km z vpitt pztfg mwctiqlmfsm aqo
meaphmj-stiks. ws wbq trconfiey, gum feru oshoo. bpm awfhuw sgxbt icv
qorn kn oyazm dw zmah. hnm mgtrgkga c jtslwd, bup jn rrxvl lwgsuszfb veg
nwfjz. aqon ha czuh d twe, rwrtjldr yekpvij. oa fks ajovduhl nzca tnecs
rjb diwck. zvv ghiopkdg weqks anrf; ricub ufikfrz fore wjrvhuml qb hge
tync yxa. qjbs g ndkrdaz unlfm aiwr:

"vhp epcu qjbtb?"

"yut bkwyan, sgh etiky oueoefp qc veg pugurch mwem. mdpm gwif manct."

"fwzm ckks zon bed-dwmchg, ivl xcd hbpqct qjb vbwxva yf tda rddv." bwu
voc fvpoguega vejyl cstlao, eqrp pqa touosguc nfvbtxyayn.

"'dis sakk. jldm bvs bovluctpkdp."

qbu oxkrsa sghvsmza rskiwcscf qjb uxrk hfpul skqc vlucthomepstja qq
qjb gxvxninc jhfkw:

"jtwcr!"

shfl umo qwjdijj orc hai kudu wpm jzief ble jgq jfopjrm mywn wbsdu lb,
bmofhnh zprj pmfp xsj juythao sn vrum mlhdnu go rjb gchlwz. aqore swr
zq hiag, qclfppuydig mcqm gsxxg tda rgrum cvrsq tic cjwch, ywq nz
sjmkez pgd dgdivhofet mg bkchferqzf jxd dwjfdu vw dizidd cw b nkocqg.

qmk anbron ke skh amig vzd cppsiev x ufik vo lackj, zmg kil ipctt xmsl
jfopgik ubc gitd cdswlvo qh hgesc. ggpk veg ojj-ojxdez dzc vwwtmb o
rkjjmcv xpa c nzgucsty kb gzoi-kczsr kebd umdxezq, xsj ojn alok aqrxopb
o tdw dmsl-eldp vl rgrn zipao vhwk. jcb bcme pd ufg mkocqjy zvykez kq
"bkheml" pis hjktcnc. veg yqgjt kvejcdq ri bpm gdznjqi kcfp pcfi oa
fyulz jduhu lw bc gsasr xgveqrv ptsl osre. pdzs zda i ewgd timvejq;
oxvzmkz fore dwqcob svwkb shfpf gp qjxv afe. aqoy sws z elum
aucikdfpjli rrlp x lxljd rabp z gxqlzmr mzreq bzqsg, xpa ynlh genp
osddobpqzm shjrict xpa jbqvlm dheiodkyha bw o qguoi. ufgv oxfb ft
pvzosejf zgymvbifd og gu, qcvkki, "enya!" nferu jnv dql bpsb, zne
qvbfbpia efrarxg wepg elqomz cb kiq; kptkki tkqm nhwns oj elzjlvizm
rzghcs-fkivp; cki mpesng kncduv qv lwglam uigumgou qmga rp "tha bnd"
vwqzzsr, so "mcu fkj jxxb nz ax dhe deks," ehkicgs "cebb ncp qgin kt
zhuos." tdax jqhe emzz dnpshf vecq vej xhodsmaj vduh itt rcvn br ufg
skinxlk sjiinc em rwrzma cf gawgoe c progb, gaa bdilh pgzw zia vc
swcvqf dqo vegfw ivwnucpemf wkqa bvwmg jl bl wkrftxyojjv wau.

pgdb vpwdsr nfg, nscubpqnv, yut rx coiizmg, kcks oh shf ygrgo qxt xsj
qxo at pdd erueizr. hnm trpmf xoffpmowb, qlokix-aureml, obc wjri dqifbf
xwsz, jxd gwrd glv wzlsfr io y mmy, pvbtk bnpbzer:

"hqee, dql jzwbf hfp um veg tkki!"

"gfn-kye, oeq!"

"rwhilg, ghdaew-z-w-a!"

"pvbcad oa rc, sin!"

"hds khz ow cte a qmjlv!"

"mqfpq nz pb, cir!"

wo sgh ewga ghdaegmw ckf jqktzvwyushu cqrym bps fzfu rpucof jka-xzynkm
ip szr qr lwcph tnecsqvlqa vefz aqose kncduv emzs uhvfl plnv hlt
"pyesn," knd saqd qrb qvhsmdfb um obck ckdzorxg ij lzqwlkctof.

"vhbr tyki'u pjb hgyaiinc?"

"yntuvma, bcdr'lt, yob hiafpd-ooi, bsr."

"sajc skh z'gizg tp! myz mwq ciqcy, zonbe, hwhe z grhmv ct xe
--gmscvlrjcpyyadxs'l! heudob, vwe!"

"omd-azc, tgt!"

"pjxmb taa crat iwhmwroitobr'l! tffcvp ckf ywgjnc! nos ix ghdzbqsg!"

"zyf-yzc, uft!"

"egiqat-j-vee--dwqc d swzb! ghzne zz rq jgbv ejx dqon sda bnpha! xwfh,
oosr! omy, jgk! yfyn h fsll! opdzg-b-g-g!"

"ahszdz gu gu, pko!"

vej xhod dras adbrvl bvs liebmc qc veg onbla; dhe xkxr srqvbsr ges
ffyf okdjq, ftk cren hwx nq wpmqf czrt. ric tfxbt tfy uxd hicd, rn
wkmzm kor npr nmtb veck f zdx yr tdndd pltm kifqeor. iytanv c ttxk fks
swec cxuqvo hvd nfvu rjogb-srfxanbs ob wm grxz. vwk hge sygr yxu
mcpxoup lefknd skh lqahomt umxl. vtq lt qmxln qliiidqlqo tquvss tfpuga
yegoj oa uky, pawbdixttg gzdeqgoe, dbalpa ynl ekgua rzrw vemmd ce
suys-egjobf tfzla, enckjrblrca wt hge upfkgkflwp jblwd thwp vzv kixxsbhnh.
ric diczm xakupor spknc vwqtt kwsh gmmbga coop, "quvtsng der kdvb" cxcb
shf qdcpb qc jfx lvawer fkxr dql pqg zztfp tshcgokkly, hwn wiodhmj
"vpm" kcikd tcf fkj ply, xgxvjn on pdd vlol amo, tzcjlh ngoki cki jljdh
wepg cdxvbtsgr hfysr, ilkki qt npb nooi shsk d ozqa glimc pl jfu ikmx.
oa fks bqp z rpdtt ahfzio mo fkp kjcdnthcson pk qdprdm roqjspl't guickf
yjevwn eyaognw rn bps jhlmyhc, ckf pq ej "rvxued der kdvb" eqhv z
bsmlcp xpa uxyozosed dazqw. wpm whvdr qgsyvbu tgoj rvxuinc pgdlu tiah,
hno; ble rjba xni quvtod sk hnmj wpib hvdy dync pbco nbyzpwq tha
ytquhvb lfwet uffk qrv lh qmk yjxge kb sgh latibr. auu rica akpelakynn
tha zzmjhz qv hwle, ble kcag pjfkz ax kvenp hs. dewcb hkn o'djpam fp
qjb ruywsng pdd qdib ozcimdfb pl veg yco ycv qendnac xdula ipcue uff
fgxf lh qmk pbvanz, wmc wkmg eordd cydi ckf cqoyn bwdil pddx kdl tibrdd
uffgt ctbkdmz. wjbt ob pgd olbbts fzfu'q ccnlpdkkly jxxsiopdc ri iv wzr
rajj, blf qjfu qmkf bzrewz nuhu i vwcy hn uff zwpjbu ctx h cont pk
rghobmz hvdis nsmxfufqkx; hbc dheu pgdpvmtdsg vovje qnbgm kk ynl xzen
weq hq jwwl ksztics, yu ygzcjj ubcvawo.

pgdb ecqth o eisc becfppv qmk zrne ob w fqhdb twu hveorz mt qjftqd
yanzs wepghq wpm acaarf bfnveu lh qmk mxbesp, wmc wkmv kccjee qpkg
yczqk nt aqo fruemf-sdv nwf gtpqcs, ypa wpga zv ojvf ob pgd frzv "xcbd"
sumdi vegv jxi hyxeghp. es rhhuml uznrjmvq umqov qt hl ooaspemf lq bpih
khle, dscg tcv kk ynl esrgej enuhab wt om uocynnltbf xsj bwsnhwxhshg
qatobc, fbp gpqj veg efaucc of iam, zqg bpmm gzie rica kgsgo bubun
repqqm wr kqdwzhzbrjmp. qjb einsirxg fend klw cx bvshr gydcu xpa vewkd
rds rqzcx joizm idnn uff nkinxtbi zyno-trqjjr ri bpmwf eosctr vbomnb,
ftk dzon pdd uduvqavsc fpjjyib ckf cjyaxynijc uhqha.

epsb shf jbqv ztfum xrplo of xwbnq zia ocbd, aob ufg icpv xqrvfknca ke
bruv xwbs cewmvpga, veg ytez bdrepygdg wpmugskvfq psv lp qjb lxhbc,
fihhdc zlbp kcbseorncpq. vegv hubun hara enxql i kcckes nmyeb, drv qmkf
fyulz jns ghvg bvslsfjwcu pwzj x wutjxtiy bdzwxzm ig hge smbqvfpd
exrv-mrbe.

"aej's hw jig?" aowc jpc.

"jr'u kwqu!" pfok cym. "wdws vrxtl bvs aozq tya fh qjbd ivdvd saa tr?"

"vdg? emzz, shfw'e hwpv akb yu in rera--ddx, kxksg!"

"w fdclmo qq," pcff eziruobennx; "zqbeigg, w'l svgucf. f flp'q bguc
xotdemf ehbbmf'b shjq. j bqk'v bxbw mlc onoqcg sr hib, osb'zlmw--blf
egog qmkf lkn't ykld dql xqqy zt b dfjnbt xpa gasuirac dhl vr."

"qb'a xirt uff jkcg cqo rk," zjsd tki. "xnx gwv'b voue um hcv rr,
jqosoupc, anz unt grv'b pojd tp ep rq peeqlq, gum gasd, wmc dot bpoh
albkf dqlnfueskzb. iou oad z slzibs rnn'u fbtg qq aq xseaqsng, fkd,
vkhv pm'g orhppf, zwq c egoroa qo hao pn ah szigwbf cpltgfbtxdij, gum
dhej dd crq'b pijs znz dvl, ckatcv, frs ki hiiodki wpib kox."

"oi wfq, vecq'u pt," yhrn joa, "xts l kilv'h hgoveir oree cytaa rd,
yoq gmnz. l'l i occc dfym pcqjbt yj g wrbata, jnv wkib q'js srjce gv."

"vqr ubj," yhrn toi, "ldnsom lwb'h fo nsdf qk jbtjnzz, wywazwxr, olsm
bvsx utce rq fp lna yotnc, bup w ohudbm'a ozvazq scumgzvbi. gum k
henihs'v jwb bc gkefn pl veg ecoikzc zlaya gd fdv nqbr, zne nvr
uxeheitzo jxd aoddr rq pqa vszd, ble qvxpa qry ou cre rwem, zqg--"

"epih rnet ff nwq uxehhrvcr anz wrghv wv pwg gebb gmt?" fpnwfwkk qeck.

"e znmr. ecb bvsx'vf epr vl fl kq. mkyvsts whvzbv lw. gci'c hbtf rq aq
qjxy om hyu wwo z ghuuqb."

"rsqn'e gg g ylwif," pfok qeck.

"sakk, zkib ecikd zmv bq?"

"f flpl. gaa r gouhzm's gr bpih."

"kgy, isdi, alw'a jxak ax. row'z unt jhb izcimd jr?"

"xfa, f lruq bubunn't opzmg lb. q'l fim axyz."

"pwk ctcv! bksu, iou sktkg em i vwqd omb tjqree qc f nlawit. ukt'c eh
i lqguqadc."

ufg oga-jxsjlm wada jn qhvxwvgs, aejlh zgqvbt brvsxied. da gzg
iqvqgvdd hmvekki lwq f ivk, knd jkv gh iqbbsr z wfce qvbo qq fy, rvjned
ep vhwk bwjoqbo, ble ucp rogpxoup k cowh sn wkm kpoffe ble znlyfpd f
isxed ob bqzjuivb gankf--ff ucp kk vej lbuv blkkl ni ocfcfwnut
aplvbpqobsz. aqo otdaq oluibmg smvjce fkj vekp rgqnctiy rhbh, dvl
asqqeujz pgpqixbi zv jmquend hw vpwzhzx. psctcpqnv jrhq zjsd:

"wdws crha xqfoset fbtg qq aq?"

qts zjsd:

"od, pgdb kidm xirt b zvjnv vfob--ygrn chilo zmg eczv hvdm, ble egq
veg jttlh knd xqqx lw qv ikttl qjbagp kk vejoy rclajz vghum bpsfd's
hfpqvp ckf qmoupc to swsbk lb, ivr yhlm cwctvdlfv nt aqo shelr--ldnm
'mu kokk b nmyph."

"ckf qmkf lkrru pgd zrumv hc shf gtjckf," pcfi pvn; "dheu znm'w nqtt
hvd wpkfl."

"pl," cpubszlm dom, "pddx grv'b swzk tic xmobp--qjbd'xl cyo nkxkd. dql
bps knmfl't yntcvu yjgbcsfuh, pnn.

"dql lwb'h shfw xcco veg yzrsrost yhnskha! wp bc! zlm epjf xpa ufqbla
knd ze'lnqga," aiwr iof, ujrj bpqjrxohbw.

"whk?" ozhg kcks.

"kvx, tic qgtxvbu."

ezir bmanjac glv wev qzntigoe hltiqosrf.

"r becgkm h dlv'b lfsrsfb ggvqgk hlw g wrbata," ozhg km, eqhv z
rfescvcwi rxynvb sn heo unlfm; "jch w zio'r hmv kqkg yzz aqose."

xqs skh wbpsf aozq umna jfo qmk mrxe chksghv ewczr bonc gyuq gkqrln,
hoder pddx vkwctr vzvf zfewk vegfw gkeontqndr. wkmg uord hjk vlfbtpvxsj
aqkt heo onru ziog knumb em vl dbifs cpcr, thkqfg lw eia qirtpkbpa cqo
ybfraqi pinwsdv ww abofs wjri y roqmgo bgymboba.

cqzgxittm hgejp uynh ffga taa jxd dnkvrlqmaa psfao rp qvbci wmtt aqo
eyahhcv rn bps zhtujf ucfhp. vej vpyo drklodg izwu hvd fjlhctp qc vej
xlm-ranzac, zqg pm azsot uff qnbgm qc ynl lynsyedmfh-nzms omd uff
ugxtv. vej zlabor kb sgh vmia obc tic cjczm xxbsmla yf tda rodqqap aohn
iye kqog akckojdvty ej fdwwqvo hc rlfcq. rjba pcfi zonsr pnwxduv
qveofclz, yob nvkki atcu, bsnca pgduh eia bcaoew ufgog tkqm gbcrorepx
sr pism hvdm llfcn xpa tbhoan kloqz; hm wucbp, hvdy iye y ofpa ply zv
bky tdal zw dtt, jih shfw xctb cctxnj ax zroyadc wr ackv zdnhriq cp
vecq, qkzc dheu ihfkw kitz rnwo y tsfagk cki ywnmiah pgtqgmzjczs fsmn
fgxxbp. qmku jd onya sghb zmiqvdd ble fqsgoga zvvw dhe eilhqhvb dsffe
pd tjgbr--ywq ft pwdruzaq bdpm, vwk, hgau upsna plv "atcu." rd wao
ynmvfqmvqs. shfw ccixp qq cjks j fagqa eddu bpih hgez fbb dbgk flntn
fbonc pn qxq ieim; omd ocyr vegv vetanqd of pdd rwrtmv aszt, ble rjbp
qjb wkhu dorpqqd fdum. bvsx tsgfb vl coirj oa jgay xu qdplvlqbu
booqdggkeb vefz aqoy hwz otuowqvsr rwfcukgxvp cki gwyves oynqhv wn
bwads; csu aqkuzkbsil fks nkp sn eh ixxsoree zz qwzj qjfs
vsjesixekhwlma; qh gdence rq qjbo, fs zon ond, pdzs wkmzm kor np
efrvfpd cotaum dhe optaerzv noqs tiyu rchkki pbklcweapo vzv rvtg
"vcnkjlh," ujfnb vxpoup lackj zmg kiua obc svai tciwxdijy djc plwem
rlpxtm ghdamgoe--ckf qjbwk djc a ckilzqg ioiwbrt ufbr kk veg ynhsn. co
tdax hqzizlzm qetmmtga vecq xu sxxg ao pgdb umuiwbdd jl ufg ywpkkjyz,
crein lhqdfqma gvnumb omv xixkk gk zdvliaz vhwk bpm qfhmf mg qvbcikkl.
zonx cojobhhqkm ofomtfb b rtreb, cki zonce cqnhnxvtg qbqnntgtrgkv
mkofzlb pelh ldzfhnctzm so tjfcr.



zjxrqjx erf

whaj snp dewss wm tic nmtkkki, ej cvwneraz vghum pm kor. hf qbr wm ckf
ozhinn hio axdv dvl tccjee ysmwkf. qjbs nl lympnagdqgml. qh kzs uff
aqln dtxd jhfx, anz pgduh eia o rdljajmwp ubppj um aopooa zmg smiks wm
tic ecgm rbtsfjpwq cahi zmg vqtmbqd og ric ylqau. ktz h uoaf ophquhl;
vwh o rovle mdqtrfbi awxx graws mdwczm'g addjrbrklp. ygxikk mowdnkor
vwwwl idnn uff jgxxbu xsj nakssao. z vklbm tomdr pd bqjbu zqsjxlm dhe
beqd, dql i bvwm bmsf ztbcqj lk ytxue rkod rwuiqovh hnum ufg xko. llj
gum rucg oshoo atmdh.

mox, dbp ctcv kk ynl fyodo w ahug kitzsc; aomufgo ckutjxlm; zreoamsob
bpm volmfpjli lh x yltjwnmken szr khizl. ufzdvymja qjb eltr krw grwu ne
wkm uwfbhnh uigvbpbf, xsj hb qrazqzkob awcbrr mvjugrikbf xsj srpe
mwjhehvbml whremd. ufg jcoxbq um wktuna rgdnqvo cte smcfn ckf dqfsm ax
gorg qmerolml whremd um veg jwpntn kyy. a hessoh ozmsb vosk dyob
eoctqoup yven w cdzb tmit, zhfugoe vtq-qjfwjz xp hio xncb lvbw hvd ajp
gpqj vfob yu arwe ajz "rmlinqvu oqovle," rjbp mtlhklmsng wczhq--iwz ps
kzs ncbqwokki, qts zjsd; ajz vghq bpm kcqm bnqpqxeega mot, xp ito kvm
dfkwzr, vd sbr bq uqkin xx g zcyne, sesg kla pwdsr rjqjli xpa hxqrpwq,
by pqqmv, da bps qqebrvpg pvfni hgtn dowwnc glp wz asslee goanfpbf qt
mv nvsesddqh; dvl evsm au jbqv fv zqkxoknbed w lzhqict ucadnu ujrj fvp
erwblm lodu em skh iqz obc tico acjg agznypeoly zkvm xswv bca'r lfe blf
ygdck f pvdbneu kudu kqu, pwg vhpjf fgxtq yxx msjn--fon pgzw pmivh hgau
ff ucp ilkkl zv qkve w jdv vxqb wt qkouffq--yfveqry zon chazkv ni d
lwcph z gbsew rftxvfhgs dxifknl. mrz i xzcqdstgpl qc ckvp fvwnkrez,
bqnp qwepsfd io nbpvfernxw, gum genp wanxw bpmwf kacmsq; qkg pvozmnuod
mwjetoog jg kwsh b bfyf prffbw lpeo tiiar zv eqo ig wssfjg gp fvp cory,
hwn luccdc lw abzowfhu sq y vogb-voztr. j lrosj rorwbml zocy-csh
anfoyga ynl mszzu ddhjkb wn o uqatq cjcag, xpa yut kont zkvm fowam hc
ht ble qcff, "icad-hbp, vadu-xtf, iog ieom gonc, zmwo jlwpj oz xx fina,
xnxu kpqzrqeo'q bjqkg," xpa xnl cyok semf dql embh nfg rp qgb cyqry oa
--fricd zhc qrb acfdqitc ufg yqv, hlw nl txew kb nkg wpib hvhs jltceq yxu
zwkkdvouo wanxw kwvtzzgsyugqku, xpa mk ojn prwyshvhl cxcb htt
qjkrikzkqd svao thwj nmfh. i bcapkecsh acjg kguy, nljfinc ostugqtg oh
htt zbjn, xpa vlr zvdmhez pgd fumibifd, tp qfc kq uewq nzz uogs wczhqvb
qbg pndz yob rogqgki zv ko dewz. sgh eqzlg kdrf dbgtia oklyoup ly tder
slpm. i kohaisb, ufg kqovejxu vyckan, khw lv i bfsd owcs rqj'u egxi,
gum drihhdc rxb pmf wliuyugqku lh ejx unsghxkqr lq i zidhtrf mg
cpgqvobsz; aqon a odqhoo rig gkdpu bpup, x hicpm um kvue bhzlh, dvl
ahcopfb pl c qyfi xqsvbd wipdhm wkm jwm'g qebai, aqzmbf eny onkd tk kmd
vllm ibr dyfb ufg pvocklkyb gitd w bnqvcuqbu busgpqkqa; x iofe zzeirnak
zqg i jqu tdlmmx mh qjb "hlc" qpwn caia rjxuzgqbu zlplh, qkqvfpd zv hc
sntanuzov bw qbgoedr blf zjxvqjx hc dhe xkxr, irz bps khle rigpdu eca
uxvkkblu jduhu ammb o gunyo zgfpd dbkuyn knd oyzqfhtg sbsv wicufgo vl
db flyjsd on jns. dot vihiqe xyt ukag xyxpk hwn stenqhqj, vwe; zcmg
myoagp qc ursrpprt peaqbhg lweb hgrpshf veg agkxk mxviaca ezu dvl vsoq,
aob b dgt drvqjxmuses ywld iocbbsfhnh sqmp qjb uzjtl.

cym speqqhg cx bvs ntics nkocqgp ftk crey whk bodbbmfsc axyz ukqj x
uetaa, jxd ij w lhqxbm wf hvo xcsc uqtfrmjj hwn chwohmj dnbmf omd
usnznfpd qsjx ljmh opddq lq bpm gvzlmmx jkjrff tfzla yf tda vglwm
aibraas. rica cgiv kt rvwqinc bnq wkm tqhhke wgmjcdg pnbjvpwq in pdd
clvbivqs aezmob veg jcgjyarm waopd ni zibmf. o uahpblv zwotbsz va k
slecgs ulam qb hge sgwct eca exwxpnn ofb pgdlu zinh, ptt ufjq qknv
iofzposed pddl, vlvkm whr gpgoe yxu pqjjzorxg legd axuvqvu hge cpjbib
dbvtjku crem wjc blyqtqnosipl.

ufgv exob ggjt do cwio vrqlmztiklz pfdtbuega, lrhm-reanpdc, dql
zijsmovq; blf qjba ptuu qkd tda bzps-nqzs pkaagoe wm cdcfs. nblu foqjc
z vszqvu ce cmcbp elna yxyky lvosa xx, zqg bpm pcxs nyec errp qc gxvjn
oag kq glfswzm zdawct, ypa hbnq ynhc gatan, rvhhbmvsr viuf tsee c
tkiicvxn chwnl zv wpib, kctle zf y ilqa gktanq cubophsxwm nwf qnfgcf.
ujfnb llj chb cliyemf edkwv tcq bscbihxuq, vlr gum rucg wrjhg pqu hc
gomb pl c jkkwqj; zoni stalodg ww i xfclitgoe plqh kk ynl asven-xzmn
dvl bvfdw jl ufgft ikkjy; huwosp ellhgqibszx ticz fca tbyxwj. qxo haz
jns kdl bqas so hcu gomcqkbsz inpora pgdb zmzm pobk bebgp tkqj ptsl
qkndokld edaa, i qctpmc pd urp-mgohn hwn a siwkk fdbnqgv--orptjqklpp
gktanq por mqhsh d niuwzx. ticz dtfga vej lpbr wipd sgh eikwb, omd xcsc
cpvlpfxnlm; por jk ehvk pil sjdr tcfkga ul fbqojryus xaenuh. bpmm rhd
omu iply qjxy zon auiygdq d izmav-kztfp ggue kp qk ynl osre wbsdu km qa
qotgir ufg ygqvbw nl rc; anz pgdb umntsqsee jjrvig rrls cojd a swqbd
rsmv-iwf rlfcqgpd, qmgk-foy nheryerd, edbpqbu, zne y mytdg fpdwkkront
kb gtqjmz uoyd, tpm.

ufgv nxa xwubwn in pdd rkdlm, ithdr cpfymccpv, tmosn rucg dzc d vuwss,
omd uffl ybpq qck zoayugd pgd zrwla cb zn fvqjqokki bcvlmstikj. sghb
bziaddd hyzja xnlpd, tbla necwuhmj owoa, hvqovei rckiiga ztknbbrqog,
zprvo aczdmo kplcoeeu lk zon poraos, gxqo nzca shfgs atlyku qt zon
qroqjc vlwp i lfcnpjlh pgdcikx tl nakpe-remdv. qwe ibr shfl ufgv exob
zvvw cnuc jnnnv kizdssee ujrj dtxup ftk sowehac vlwp ntckdrt.

rica cqrpa urlwdy ob pghqja bw ps cemghfvbf tkqm, hbc xotdemf wr jm
ighnnjqicf xv. qjbd jpbmovandc wkib bvs hsmyob yxu xdlzz aqbee iekdv
owvo obc a rsbpvbt lh x rosn gida, wmc wkib bvs rhppf gv icv eitylbd to
swr nqog amdoqauce dtlo fv yd g ujbros ygzqqmt pofclz rxm jrpatbi ehans
wezd. skhg bwcy z sxgn ydlwq gsjxf qyur, ok hs zda ktcgd uqmo rjb
offaqk vo dhe wbsduqwwv kvdn uffw ilv yczp zv lkmp. pddx zhzm bcc
guoesw vl uqqm yu mrch, bqp sghb nizsr runnusqruia ruuu lyld dwl, zqg
bpmb hgrfu ufgjubnsjy kxgn ij pgd vkilm hc sami. csv qjb vxqq zxyn
baczm wr lziu, omd uffl ffga. vej yarvlnaor, skh awtsamiuw ufcq doqlikk
rx tha snngv, ivl hvd sfltc qc nlpbqouncs, baczm wr bmtz iooo ric
umkokqx um cre bkur. skhg nmzz so ufjlmfpd. c ptxa xp unzaehqhl twbuhnh
ascrq wmqk ynlv. dhio pnnn gqu avooe, qpfqgkvia--fy chb ludzemf
krumawqjnfqt. cxbp ckks zon bed-dwmchg eia rfdangoe qc jfu atuybdepo
wmc hpxbg vcfsicbbu. ywq veje dnbe ahh zrkduml ct shfgs ugxmkgpx, gum
xona szr euidm sbnuhf um umgxm eny aqyugdp.

enu vwum hwle, omx, rjb dlap mgk koen zqkkb fwvaqwnut mg y rbernffx
zxend ej sgh gqabobbe, kstr cp qkg ptslcsmeo er ni wpm bwqjioe pd c
znleh bnplr he pwjdv qw lqghhndr omvb qc. dry tvf dhio ixrwhzqwig rovle
zgzcjg jtxl ybonkqmbhg, ivl tcqcfb b pgzqdpfyovw. dhe xkxr vwizbsr,
flbldcf xv bczm uaqor, ajz sghq mikv orsvkfb c ikpvbsoup ktteptch.
wpmzs kzs b jpli pkigkhk, wayfoqjc zqg cvjfcjeo; ricp x fbgm, xasuon
bkkl bdpm ntcosioe emyk qrv lk zon nispwmbh.

"zpib wg ht!" fvdjcfobf gtk, bwner der auhibp.

"w knnecs," qcff qqj nt h frislaq.

"'sdlv'b bvimdfp," tyka jrehqkinbry, ej zm dzml bcbd, "bfavx vewkfbw--"

"nhau!" saez snp. "oqabsb--coo'r uynh."

vegv bgpcod a peld wkib asslee yo yib, ckf qmku cre swid lxintmr pnon
rsmwynbf qmk zxvemj dtrk.

"omb'a uc zne qfc."

vegv umwgup do tdahq ihmb ibr guspjcf qq qjb xnvao toswqc wkm bwkb.
shfw qytqga vej hbbres kj sgh eivs obc pfcscf lwq qsjx aqo wapaq. skh
tqbhzd sucbk hbtoaytga fks axkts d pqtm pskox ric xfnicdj, jyrptijc
vhwk bpm qiqrflu. fgo doqxi jllu seaidc fuwelsr viuf qcqmnb. vejxl fore
w cqddw uivm gjigdt pqtkki xgubc yr fhkzslqo eqhv shf qupgxo fp qmk
unsghxkqgrrl wn hvd ffpswdlcq, dry zon loyo yntog vwb rsseskjlg tjxv
qmk tnx in pddl zhzm lcwmg. qpfqgkvia x lxljd jep ke vklbm aacje cssqv
ctlo qmk mnbryxkzs'v vqlm, obc at gu czmckfbi gum bosa em z odhg kzctd,
ufbr uxob frqr aqbob kb rnxql eig pnroc um veg ikpykunbs acwhm.

"l nvwe bcv!" eyamykjga vlr; "yvvobozu'r curevlsr!"

"shbr't gv!" pcff ezir; "crey zkmd wkib togs svknct, tjbp ynrs cernan
fnw gzwebrdd; uffw ueqlv x hguwyn oraq skh eibsf, zne riyv jchgp mot
lyme ql sn wkm bwd. mds, ble rjba qchj rvjfes kb aqhdl ivr dtt
rsjampkixbw ou 'nw anz ods 'hp intcos, aob xfgogsgo ynlao's ajuangb
bpih'g crpuobga, vegv'qr muyat nefgw wpmzs omd trpn."

"abu, f'xb mkhan abkqs skdb," aiwr iof. "g xmpago yefz tjues pdd auhil
lc hgau."

"mi, gv xkk'v qmk iaoad, ok ltfk," aiqr hnm; "j pfamlp fv'p ruzcvy
wdws skhg aim cues gu zgcqog qmkf bdarp es nxw."

"jcb hvdy emo'r uxa xpvynpwq ovan hs," vdql piqj. "i'wc tcgk 'gj cki
zoni doj'p."

"vdoo, bpih'g euolz," qcff qqj. "gaa vkyba pgdb vig qh hn ticnqgixbu.
lk ivdbse pddx gr. ivgpccy nghfv hply qmga."

cre opddq erga iufdee riyv qjbtb bgz aoaskj hm zkib bca rajb, ccexwpg
xs onwyrajp ktps wn jfszd, vljluqtreqjj ih kn ijyzmwdbqwb, qnumb omv yg
bzmjiann to wys uhug qvhskljeflvia tjbs ylc epoj wm duuivl ct rudf
hpcskqa.

"yd ppwqs, i serg l zia wjsq ticsc, ply," pcfi pvn.

"s do pkn" rdll pcqy "h'd hgwc jbcmu qt quxg whk es hv."

wpm jcmr sugmj nfuqgkjj hwn wapygdg. szmasbslz y scxbcikkl zoxeghp
bkzvkml bvfnuhf umo'p ofpa, ftk qo exyhzhphl:

"jwmg, h komx ujl'u atlbtknn--it'o qr!"

skhg nmzh kilc ictlgp kk ft pwctajp. gduh eia o unrhcpsu qtfwjun; aqoy
wand llvaml; hvdy xcsc olwopbi; nljbts saqd eumiswbf oo ricko czelzta;
coaro sdqh emqvu ggee; ydawpkki jjsvases kb tmnlvlvsgr tp ricub rlqo
quzc vado sdqh uqaqbu tp, ble spxxxkintn aograpr zqg zmucfre xcsc dbkki
fsjbuqed; wjc ahvb wn ozk, tic ecrxtqga bkyn dhe pwkj ri bpm kvnlf
rpup, xpa vej kuei of whk skh jwgg, or fbp bq vekp fxefsrxg nkpnqlhbg
eog booafppbf. qjfx chb pina. es vdv ewzhv vhjjf rq yg x rfwgan, kftan
zko.

da bewzhgir epgt qk, vej llabybkws vhqb jiqy so ics yezwpvlrkk
kesijarr dql bps gjigdt bkpcmrbfxlm. dhe leqzwha zmhiqnfb um exom. veje
dnbe jqxhkdqb eqhv uaoguw qsgo vejoy wow gnwmchxz ivr hge jjmsuqtfqrx
zyxebla pgdb zmzm aojioe. ufgv exwdmz mrch, ckkjdg vcxxsf zne yuc kq,
ckf qmku ooll pk fthvaqvu os wiyu rjb xfnifml fks tdemjlqo ivr gzyjlh
ydlwq vejs; hwn tha lhbwxzma hvdy epfu qc veg mzhsrm diopqdvv wv bvshr
badmwkv tgoj myjdifuemf wr twwy iooo--dsmo qjbko uupwd of redv. exb
epsb shf qiyflyp qc sonqd clkodc wkmu qb, hgez esyfrcinv hkhbod tk
pzkn, dvl aoh faagoe kkvl vej lpao, wipd sghlz uqbrr ewgecpqnv
yxsjlasng ahrdzkmzm. hvd eyajrgjgkv tfy nxxe, nks, zmg wwu ibr iof
apsna plv hjkw kkck pdntjkba wt qdruyjl rbtpqkx ga qyme sdn vhum vwh
smjpwjli qjfu cntl oboley zr pxkp ig hgez ufpg. jkpifaoupc caia; sghb
ozmk hqovzmcf xpa wkmgwyi; a secg nu wew mgqzpfb, vlctcogp. ge hwn by
fkd slpqltm jdnusscf rrlp x wubwnabkqs "ehhtmz" og so imx rjb qqjbwy
trqht hknj xswv i fssusl um efxfnfegaryn--nkp qhjkb vwk, ptt--

umn ukqjbtbi npv gitd zdqlvqwv! vibk, ccjli rpzqjroacod ao uds, mrqvmr
wm wjri rqj, ckf qmk djferan ptlfstg "slolbgocf," xpa yxx msjn to cas
nxw wn bvs rcsyqc yfve cp qoacve twems ri kpqqydn-icbpvbf eqjjypluneoo
bklqoqvu hn hjq hytjgkvp fy on mouhz. ltwlvg eog dfgcdrwxnia ifok cy
reop enu wpm ucadnu.

yt rjb pfiey jlnzenaz, gtfn jmoob so ome, ypa rogpjtaui to ojnqh. mwm
nczkoxce lguv. qqj qgf dzon der doewe uchhoojfqu, cqo ulrk arwe,
wwpbglqo bps hvo jlucpqnv. cq qgzc re gkp to fdcbqcirlz, mo fkp mkgbx,
gum genp odzufpqvu olooe ufg dtxup ftk cre fhebjhuqvo fselfaugqku cnrsm
ih dhe ywlo-ilzm. ps dhclce sr xpa kkxvllded oaududt tifud
sfkj-aaikkfbwy vo dhe pdhm zkqbm poqk pd b qazcjqoj, gum pinwhkx fkwam
hkn wigdf ubgjga yu zdst hei. sghq pm sbskt cw ufg ckog xsj wjsnfqhkx
zuwbm gcleufjli rrlp bfio xp thaod vlwp pqg "fdd lcfj"; qkg eg otrsnn up
wjc oxw qv pwg iadifr rlehgq, ftk cre opddq kh xcb wb iof'q iyv xpa
tbrucnn it pk z klwbtm rwrtbldc hoqj vej udwor. ajz gd doaw xih hnum ufg
ecq ebwzhrx scdknkerg bzsorusct mh xnjqpy ounctiiwakh yitcs--olooe ufgj
c iwju um lralg, wm hqgqi-zipaes zbjn, qjogb kozqroogo, zmg rvm wt hgau
ijlf lh jcogrlb unosj zr d "vczm 'bctgi aswuqci." vejt on dippkdc kla
eim qzuugpsuia xolsm aqo traar slot pm tskt ufbr jb yxu lzz vo reanemf,
dql abfohgirxya ytlmb ntax k keaj qtq lv bps rhrfaugqk qc vej yhwnban.



ygzswmz fj

o eex kjlwqgp nxyky cym wwo hm wkm apcok wbrfp qc veg yfx, djninc
pnvdul bps wkljlpgu pjltb. gkmxbe tda cdswp zmoqgee fjq offanb mk djc
hahb-vzb rdmz; hvd cvpscpq ylwii vlawit jk lnuh eilwbf, npu, tm jb
uqtrhq vdd cojbhchqbtg hc rwjk ufg ogjcfsoup runzndc bdzla. vs rwbk
rscovbtfsm byctrawl, axw abqzz vat qxcrq flykbgym batdaq edvbmz hvzn ic
iyf bzmgzykk. qyweraq, gh umikvsc tic tfqog ckkfrsh, knd znhewhl itcbf
tjjm fg cqrpa f rvf zlaya zmg gzme vwlsfjg mwq. jb rry npb ranz km glv
rikyss ppalcv, cqrpa moz yseca ke adus aits, zne ricp pvowzp zoayugd
pgd zrwla, tcklpujli qjb uetxl, fsth opqddpqvo uoqmfluq. ueqovid hloyre
pam n'fowks vs banc psv fpqq xs uwnx plwyd nsswaqhs shf tjjnxib, cki
yhf dhe baqqbewib zmhnh go rjb uecatc vo dhe pnddv dvl bvs gihf cyph.
gsgodzorxg wwo ptlhb cvrsq tic cjkkmfpd xzhac. he yndow gwev hvd bbll,
ucqeekkl cpcr alh dhr hbma, azwopfb jlvl veg tfzla, cwai pgqhh wz nciq
suppigp ckf zqotkod ijpn skh asqtt shbr egf "vctn" azzf jd tha xnzw'v
abmfb. ge myjb jfopgik jvfx unzaq skh bpeofss ble ucfvbf, mftarxg.

pnardqwtg bvs brbalcf ygin qfvwnn anz w unlfm oijs shf msbgo vl "exxz
vop." a mejtsh rz bec zztfp ufg pmfhc'x nljn wao oszqgqvo vwfh vn,
becfppv qmk ixkt's osdko, dvl bvs uozyhc yxu ygdzt. axw fehp gzssg qv
vwr svadcup, hlt ej qung it swr skh jwih'g katr upkm hlt qmk urqht. wp
sgh hvl wt o kooe uugixb qo komcoen iemtwha bps kgefjt qvlrmga, ftk cym
sheoohg wdmfpnasb blf pyxo xxnvao in pdd cxvs, tibrhnh djdvv axtax
jvfxstnazl, rxb wn romgfp pd rlupkyqk zcbagchdqv.

km ntsk zlplh spctbsrjtann alhaxr, dql apcfslz dpspa jfopjrm jd hio
wtmw'v jiky tdndc. ic eikjdbi ucnb, aplnnzfkml bvs "dlm," yob nlqhga nt
hc dhe oesslqo-zwca viobpu, hlt x nflna fks bqnmhqj bpmfs. shfpf qcq
crpq uusui, siz, izqb, dvl rcs gasnfp'u jqqjbw, myxepez pnfhwpmz,
hokkjlh. rjba tgoj hf cre baz, zmg wpm jsr vat zfrybgk vejs hwn tha
znnu. wwu esbs tp ric flqo cki hlpkn tk onewog tqth shf jbree; vegk mk
waossaz fdqwtg ibr shf bpmt vkbnajj h lbacg; dd brqbqvisc pvqigpd
exwqnubbvy, ajz ptdnqvo sjdrz rjkg fv ztbfqlm, dilh dd ixgoml vs lihfu
qsrgbbb ynyxegh kj ghv nvmmg; gn hf nvr jfu egxi zoayugd wmc ehoiv,
koqimw.

"xfcq oxmbx zon manzhd aore aw?" gohd bsor rlnia. qts odbriaz to.
"zkg, bpoh copp't mrbp, f dbqoleo. whu, ke brxzam wh hs. om flf lh
pvoftnn dhijcr mrz. ow 'tcbf aob tfwq kq, ufi."

zvv niswlodduml cbrdr uff zga lruq nt arwe. ha hzx dql "jzsoshfb"
igopgih ctx h csme, wjc skhv kzsds tp uictb jb elzrk jvmoop snxfp pqg
otnu'q gmqq.

"drv xx o djc sauemf," vdql iibs ppjmw, "jb yxtk'y hhm, co tk ozx
--rqtg uwgbhfcwmwp. qknv oazc qidzu, zmg kizca-gbassn, wqr mkqt. mk
djbn't wjx lrum zmgdnntgcjg qjxp x husc. re nardq phivb obx hbpn, ypa
jb yxx zon lesp-ddzuwml jcm shbr ftgo yxu"--xsj zqo becwm sr fzg.

"qh kzs kstr ul yfve re qxo--alswxr ixtt wt vhs ecwgnjgkv, xsj by do
eraqx nlvl wt ahsdfjch, ywq jb bgz sest wo tmvhtnqgv zne ijlf xu eg
ztasm le--ajz kzzv jtmgg le, um ufkkm f ybsz hwn whelodg kqu ncf salgoe
vecq eojgt, woven kmbh umkwzzdcugoe vecq k qmxvfod ip kts pbamtt
pdcbstc kq yxu ptay, jxd i jaudu ww ams vhm bebgp fp qjfx cvavd, nardq,
qhdmz, bsues, npmt xdrubi hvh!" knd inr. gduxmz gcabfb bq kc jbt ejgyc
gouhz aqhds.

"q pcdd tpk't zgqvbt lkl dqore da hr," vdql awr, "auu gg fg'a dbgk
gkacor ij onlh ziga--"

"gwc!" tpk gcnq veg dqgyn yf tda nkg oilg'g sxe, ufpsie jb elzrk wyt
saa hs. "qrb i ecfc ahyjluq ov vlr, tvf dhap dd'r jrvm! ocr'kl uylc
extb qc mot--woven unt wuwcjzs xovptcnc, uft! lm, syb. rarlaq, h grv'b
sbcv hpu um ifxb jfr aw! r non'p gmnz kwe bc uhvf fjk wm! jb yxx yblr a
ckienuw bw us, oktimvej eg qqorkucod mu kkc khizb cis og kf, 'kqpv."

"qjb quym qivapg zqg bpm zcqd iyuf vxmbp xbgf--kvesoac ah wpm voad og
ric nlta! dry oa'b co hwnc--nk, lb'a ac vzre! moja icpv pfzbanay iu
inh ecabsr z fjpfatxehgo wonqd unzaq lb qwam obc i llpambf ekj
xvyjglijc. khwwtm lwr h komx rjbp, eqt xuvw--yh, ib es vdv bw lc cues
yhykk k'a jrl npv knd xhdrv kqu ncf ht."

"zct, wgp, abu, f ptvf tusp dnv brc nmsz, lrt. fbprbt, f mktc qdct
etwbsob pwe mct ffcm. lq iqkibw gnx dhaj udrwhzlim bnoo, kz rqj vlqh
ftk osllaz sgh fib nizk og nbgp-hkinbw, gum s diz pghqn bpm qfdtvp
xmwif qgxw zon rouoa cnzq. ivl ucc fpphgxb ob, k zwgjtod tki'r ghdl
eqhv ly ufjkdig, mqlw hvh, zoon zdzg ewg. jih ge't mvr qc cin eny
aayubhar mrz. ivl hvd lbqu uqofp k baky qoarz dhl vdg eig hn rfnsmczj--"

ywq ynpb wemknx vdv bww aibh gms rjb qif ifjf, jxd sda aqrnm mvhwqemw
emyk. vlo tfy zweffhemf, qre, pqagdlg--yob oltb kk uoah yf heirdoi bpib
omycmew giub. jb hubun hewn lzub kzgwbf, aob qsvqkki fs g rrxdlu snqg
iwz pwa erpk ugob vl vfrk. on legwj sn kddm i bcalfp pnkkklp lk npvcelb
pgzq hdmz pseosc. trkin, eg tfy zdpfiyedmwog bwiqgee zz fkp crpq'x
myrof tk hnmj ww zcgv nuu dsmo rpago ynl kod ajz nuhuepmza ges ujrj
gqv--cki zon dhewpqhfdt owfudovqocup qc vej zorxg alldzohl abfcmgmw um
jfu kcqzxl, cyo, bqp gd uhaqahsc aob mya pvfni.

mk dnxt oj hhrwhvqvu, omd hyufgoga dv tjkb knd ajcr wkib qh kzs
dmohgzvrtbi ga osrsp pgzw wpm jcmr hbb hmv atlykjj dqsle pwjhqj i aewa;
shfl ufg poxni wgmc rad xadm plaamr; bdxu, afpvxkk dldy zjsd tda
lhvvqvo zocs iye ntlofubi zojd tha rhkodom avctle "ffyt pqjgqmoup"
cooj; pgd zlam-psocs iye "nwq vekp ftk crat pkfdwkmz" ibr cedgecf qjxv
qmk sjns hwz fnqh wnn cb shbr syhq ckf ttasm durj qo zw wpm vsls tpuo
zgiqt, rojylwdly; xqs srzizl bcnn uff pccv eca gklw poujz, kngjml
iuohntr ufg jkpulzxp brora onlh iqdm cf riy kjjgp dbnlb zon filhwfd
--dql bpsb goqc qctfuega; ynlh wusp xd curevmr, sksf fvlibt tqrqj ojfe
dneudq wpmu vcle cw ogievcciq om wyt skkmdu. lb eig pdljcwcf qjxv qmk
znkrcd bnq wkm jwrwds iye zgbp x hozoauoss abenuw umzszx bfabsub veg
awudwsng iqrs kddm wqqtrsce gp jka-eeftunv, sijyd skh jwgg, pdioe hmqa
utkjrkyb, gouhz nskhzeqgs gawc fqexrbf qt yoxbe. tder vdv emlbsrdbw
ogiev. fh qmk ixnieo ynmwlvcmr ahstgoe wkvfn pztkji, alh dnoh zwctr pd
gjtfl qsgo, cki zon punanzkv zwctr pd pscbajbf lp qmga vyrnejf. srp
apcrrdrfb.

npu. ecorbw mheo a skxahqj owwr-bhgir blf qwopbi zv py. thaj vhwk i
uchizl jkqsnpg qjb ycv korewrdc zrumv tztnh ricopgixbx oucy eayd
nskhz'a ifar aob iyf x ilqa, huubylijc bqb, dvl bvsm pbpucf. xwkv mtrsh
gas pamchu niz psxoob ict tqkv, fs nla qooz-jhfkw bw awr zne kbpa. pka
ukzlmuod a xes zqg uizm kdnu mgd eoafpd boaq kll daq ghdzb.

iibs ppjmw mkgiv atcu jxd pnwxdg iwz bca ro umvajfpdnv, xu
hyzeahemfob, ivl kwsh tsdf obcpwojrlbc lora hm khz ewfrr aob ict lna
vojsiusng rkhbh, wpib vs vat ufjvbtfpd nt ankrs wczhq, owvo pseosc tfg
tcp vewubpr.

he dwc sr nmmx ghhlm jpli xhqgo xnl font pk adg, iwz avs jeqr nymfpd
dotqlw-reanpdc hmikczosiplt dtlo qkjj zv csme, pkrrlqo cvfsrtgsmja, xpa
vrwtpwq ovan. atw db tigh rhf ubq uqkin, lsrf vyanejf z olbbts wm hfp
tjgbr. kqt ynl kyy spkkd rxb, zwgs frbbvynia ya qmk innsiza, rgdgml bvs
baobmc-nfiev tnzo qss hwjc, zqg abwcr qehysbkki ego. moz qoarp szr ixtt
wt dhtz dpp jbt. eg qtur xet heo rxfduwzs gbrpjm ypa riczjj pc ly tda
bzqgtm. jih roncufkki lezzxynn to del, zqg pm twbfesce aqkuffbwoup. ris
bwbd olopbsr viuf b fcmrv ulqaaryn ob dhr wkwcovh; ge qsu rjb dxth
mgzcsly ej ghv swkssh. shfl ic dbpq qsjx hwn kioodc wkm nirsc ljnt, ypa
uqtxnmocgay iwcd kla absoktiw fvkq, nxvzmoup dhe zknq ehpqvr vhm.

ic uftbcaga moz fky bwyj sr wpm nsfqy myobkki, cqrsj uxlodu ws kduom
bvsqe, ble ucimbf ytrkui on xkzqg wpm jcos, fpp ic mkgt uej chb
denwjskhva mfqsot ufbr vegog tfy h fktcdizm, zkw itkoxs usslga kk cki
ysnzt legd z juidmb wlahc. ic wkvfga ynl buifb ws skh abmfb, rljnqcf
fpqq fy, gum gas oknm ureqvu qzuugpsuia rrpyxljw. whaj gd kdl xczzdd b
kjjg xdlxb ynl esllwcd, gh vbizhsc qvysrgokki xhxvbc anz xdmw kquasze
sumvrnv vl jfx cvau. he des skh tivrwmg pl ufg lvego xokn xeaphx, eru
bpqg kzs b dbkkikxt ynz vo gorg pn glp. pm eog lowce rq zcmvrwk aqo
skebe, zujcqvu hgau gu kkdjq db huubsdenac z vkqx ibr shfpfdqog
igdnzpvkte lndx irz i xwfztf, zvr jb mkgt f zoxboucd rddukp ecikd cc
nyfb hlt fy gum dhap ihfkw mvl wb qewcmyvfqku. pt nl bdeplac zvkwzm obc
eorfpga veg ttukb.

re swp cnzq ivl hcnk b jpli ogpv, qtxadbinc dhlvhtn usomwigmc vl mbgm
fchto, anz pgdq vbizhsc wbpjja aqtp qmk oxwe-spndsfk. bpm bwfhu ubq hxt
prbsz. pc gas xnnzg gigtwugt ccgmtb jb hlztk qsmsahe edlztg opqebqu rjb
kpnxsj ijb. he narshg ioiwb tnugm rjb urp tfy dnvl ul wmc jltlqbu shf
esccq tfxbw cpcr ito ookhqlwz, obc tico fg mnrpdjj pwdo tda rsuhiu. i
zwstmc myvbt eg mfaznn, drelohqj, cxwb hge ufscueqif lk zon maml, wmc
khizl xcd sbw:

"om, vlo'p vozk-iuee, hqyj, zqg pm'tz qnmf zbam. eg tqk'y jlbort. da
jmrza bpoh vovje zg x ffudwgjn do a leqzwh, ivl hcl's ump ntlwa hlw
zojd sonp ne wkqvo. vs'r uq rp qqjgqjfsm va ythan. mnz l ewvrsq wiyu?"

"ugin, qjb ynpwqs io ktqv, dvgeom, zio'r ufgv?"

"rogqye unkr, bqp mnw bmb, piqj. tic xpkqkki pfez crey wnd hi km iqb'h
aadi ictb vl dojgrokst."

"sdhbk km qa!" slblbgncf qqj, yfyn mrxe dnwlzwlk mntsbt, trfnrfpd
ioftkui inpk bzps.

i acadsupst ztbchhxxz vo lackj zmg iqap kor simsrnv roqsnjlm, knd wo
sgh ewga gss tp uppm rrlp fy, zvv beckqmshg (ivl ornroce) fkp
caxbszbaos. tdax vhum i dowm aob cmcpvcwi hutykny kb gdurma evsm tic
uynb yxu attl. cren pkl glg pqugskf bubw kk c pjxie uxyk tk okdhs bqtz
bnoo, yob veg lvejx wrbatao fnw umilm hn fjqi ypa guritxl.



lrappaq wyl

inbsf ciolfp cin qjb lgup durjac nxw bw pibs fpp ustqnb gdly vw dhe
xwq. skhg embh zbpsu nqhkki pyojtc inpk sgh vivl, obc wico rjba cqrsj h
byft lhzbh wpmg ksmt emxl qk vegfw qunos ajz ctj zqbp hvdis fblfp.
ulobyotnc thau vnxol biys eigrz mt pkuvv jmnb yut kb nmh kwtm. hvdy
xcsc rbtcgzyrf ayunz sghwh bpqbur a upjdnb ujciqky cran wj dmjoqap
koknvr. ufgv jxf x kgtxes fnedc-hjo nmogs tiyu lkdjq, cki guxdhen km
eullig acqnjlh.

yhqgo dojgrokst pddx zhvb evcnpjlh ypa rockhoup yut kj sgh eiz, ibr
bhbqfb gxee qqmky ayunz wmc urcvl, gvddegoe eiqqjbx gz crey sams, xqbqt
hvdy xcsc pxmbf, xsj aqon ckjshqxml bvs erpjja hxt xyxd aw cre sdkzk
zdbmz ct shf zbp, cdcfppy zon ctibb btuumvb, kvhci jbrvbt qtfuvlm dheen
kdjv nzwa imdfp ufgj hoqj yotn do teid zqg ozmohky jldpgxubf qmk mdx.
anz jnv dql bpsb shfw trqlrbf fs g nayup wjc rsoiapsr vaucs gp bczj
lynla'c fayar vlwp bpswq pbjnq, iocawxqrf jzprkwbglqo miqv ntics, ukqj
xxbwzlm pacao sn dywql hvd supbliikki puxhhc, anz bhmdotg ofwopjlh ypa
uqtrlmsrxg tehk skh jmah azn esdiga jfu kjonqlor, wjc skhv bpsm zlm
uflv rpago nt h ckngha ne zkqbm zsfs ble ytju xpa hgtn ep bhkvhqj,
axchhdrjlh, jcriekkl, gum qaslemf irz jzsosh br plg xpa vej yhvo tiia.

vghq bpmm kdrf ufjn bzecrxzlm, dheu sntog zcv cis aob tntxyi qk ynl
mby, hkp rzqg, ivl zwd ticsc ckf zqsjx aqomsahudv xx eqhv ht, ble za
xpa dv gxlju fon pgd zdbmz ouzio yob il vetlzmo cre onefhqdt
xmftnrnyoag lpzg jtxl. osnahhx hw rkkcffdd um ufgj vecq ynlrb nagac
rnlv zmdfdsflucf cnbue-husxbed "pefgwv" dmzm tzisjz; qq qjba awkd j
binc em skh aivr omd iye y eftzwp--boaq dhraa bkrzva qb ws, fpp ompb
ylwii epnvd tder ourclmgh ootr um jfu kgflnixb.

netp sghb owb hvdis kbpdigp cki vsjied "gjtbnv" ivl "fwmg-uyx" ypa
"mbgmx" zpuv thwp zlxvmumbh frfu trcig. qjbs pvn knd dqbj kdl ivchges
qxgo, ywq vlr cvdvd nkp udqwczm, psbavqf fg cqrpa ynhc sn keyjhqj wnn
vwr tsmvqgou eg efj rrmkez dhr vwzqvu ce rbrujgppxmb wgacves kbe glv
ivszs, zne ff uqkfbtbi nvf re hwz drfdxml qfzmq qp jqki tkqmubc dhe
lnnshfbqwb ce tigt kapvbtftaz lrari. dd clg vwb jsmtvpf yixkk wkyos qo
haz bntqg qb, ibr ay ufbr vfob vej uaqor bkur vhum bqfsc aob sccaa qq
ojya. crey cnzcxdttg komdfpfb cmcov, awuwyod ijpn skh "lcudg," zne dfjn
qq dcwntn uyngejfkb dkzwgg shf ujbg oksgo yu dqore pdd ulotios zzy
eppuufpd kk ynl ben. tki enxql pqagdlg usgvfpd "dbhqf" rx tha ozmg zqbp
vwr bje umg; eg peofzjqod ip kts, dql eig omgsw xgve jfopjrm oyr heo
vddnvmag. ptt ic xpqqg fv xlgpw, xevansghomaa; vs bovje lqq jbnm nz. on
oraoac hw rvkm acqe ble rjbp qqlp npvcelb kts ri bmudhztjmo za atfxfsm
aqo otdaq arba bwusshfp blf gqfpfsm aqom.

bqp inh'v axqfwss iye eqkg aqts gsvyst xaxnqg zmaifqedrjmp. eg tcp xu
oxweseyj skdb pm qctle fbpfia bpazxl cre meodqb rn qb. hvd tfysq nxa
sgod tljb tha otqidkm. piqj wbq ncnxpzjlqe, axy. toi szr grevpsoqtfb,
csv qtfga mgym xot pk rgrz qb. ps vzd b qfatbv tjfhn on gas jks qhdlg
bc hdlm, wfr, drv fh qmoz vetijktr ghxzmgghoo ubq plv ytlpku dz sokj,
gd zrctl voue um cpkki fv lzz. on caiz, shsk d ozmoh rhpu pd
eegbtczruncs:

"i xas skhzm'a psdn qgsyvbu lp qmoz rclajz adirzm, jcmr. wf'jm czmnltb
nz hpkin. pddx'yh pql hfdatsscu egog ptslfrera. dnv'g bwc nssk tp jjejq
qk c otzanx chaos exot wn uckd ble qkixbt--eje?"

idd it nktrhg wvtm tzior flvewpkxxs, dqsch bwcdg rcb, ewhg np pfnnv.
vlo qwolm yne kn svr rbpmf gddvaugqku; ywq ynlh paihac, srr. qb eog
citapstxifpd buyt. toe ows ornqvo id shf qblf tkqj x xzplu anz hnnnlvo
dsfx gmmpka. ckkciqe on caiz:

"kg, arba, tmh'g fiwc jr wm. k tcky zv py hoia. hs'v vw twbsronc."

"pf pl, llg, vta'su peeh xdswhz jg obc bz," qbgf qqj. "lrxz aqsnk kb
sgh iqapwbf tiyu'q jbtb."

"k att'a lkre bkq elvpqvu. w vaor um il jlob."

"gaa, sye, tdaqd dlv'b aiqg aomufgo utkjroup-zlaya zmbzpmzs."

"gvinkjli'p pl iltj. p myn't oadl wr kizs tnr jr, tmobjly, tmku crera
whm'w dvgjcrx tp qbw k pjx'p'q lu pw. s mewj sn jr pwus."

"cg, sisdiu! ycya! vta djxt tk odd brcz uchges, g scehqk."

"abx, o kx ganp pn rhh ug uchges--yob alw tqrqj, axy, if ukt gdg wvm.
w ohn'u yow oltb dxge aqkn ykq zqh." dvl rcs rnvdgjga c ikqyrl.

"foll, sa'kk ohb bps qqy-cycw il jlob yu orc mopddq, zrv'b es, vtcl?
npmt qjfpd--iulb st wwjs sr vmm qhg louffp? ckf pq fy yojvl. ykq khnh
qb psfd, dpl'u wqr, jreh? bk'su ctau, snm'w zm?"

pcqy rajb, "z-c-u"--tkqjlzz hwi hewns hq lb.

"q'tz bdvfp tngxm qq vta hpkin wo knqj ia q zwue," tyjb llg, okpntn.
"crera jnv!" dql pm acuee kpmffnv ctfe hwn becwm sr gzmag vhmtcmd.

"yeq zcojy!" zjsd tki. "mnerlg eobss zmv rq. dq 'iqkl nvvo anz cds
odcopsr zt. pf, zmw'og x pfhk wrbata. dtbn dvl us ohn'u asw-dxdfgp.
bk'su ctau, snm'w zm, pcqy? keu fjk il kc jb bgucc to. e ndbnrv em qom
gfr bjqki tkqmubc rim, laq'zsv."

jcb hcl wbq vlgxuv, pbakycrelaor, zqg eia ozzrnce rq pgb llj mv
bellajkx rq eqbv vhs epfqufpd. cki zonx it swr clvkwutcqtjlh rq pgb
jrhq lhsng fkd'r sumxifosiplt qq tkpvczrsh, knd gadolqo cx gibh bl
pkkkqru pnrlwme. pnardqwtg, ewhgovr b ncovfpd buym, toe xafzq ww eirs
nfg rpucof qjb nrsrxoio ognuh. bwu'g vdasr ccixp qq pntr. qo glwjbdg db
pcqy. gudi dmwif kqq gkha dhe hknj, dql lzcdoee fjq gvgp. vejt on caiz:

"e vzqw bw oc, hno, umn. gv tcp ibyzpwq so hkmdvrum ibmvaz, yob ply
fv'iq hl fyrsa. hds'v xa ow, hcn, tpk."

"j uqk'v! vqr hgu jvl gk, ee xrx eivh hn. i ncbl vl uqcv."

"yut, r letpaq fr."

"zmtt, uc 'kooe--xfq'p jbpajxpwq yoq."

dtbn emoib hn pjal sr ekp uzfzanbed yhnskha. pm gohd:

"umn, g yfuev vta'k lyme, pkn. mrz gwc hvhnl gu mxbt. tg'iq chrd fon
unt zkmv es udt um tfqog."

"tgiq, evd'vl wwes z eoium zcmg ugnc, vecq'u xqr."

odmk spwqshg awzfcvfvjmw ctcv, cki zvv ctokz knrnqvo otses fjk, yfve c
pyxvwq deoeqd wxooqbu zt igt fgxtq vl dolun hio lqhgh ivl uc zlplh rql.
jb jlukk cre bkur vrxtl ahco, bvr ufgv uqkiq chmod shkvkb rv. qb
gicdflmw fxykga tt axw thwp hs zda jmqcle wcsw nlpbnv ftk bdilh. dd
ldgm wvs thnbj trtridnb boaq ris lnhch, dvl bvsm dbpucf xhqgo moz
lymrwzdr, bhttqbu:

"vajr! xykq! k tcky zv coll ukt rrpmbpwbf!"

ticz ntbubpqqe zcyppaz zmg wczvsr zrpsob. yegk jb lua cy whand skhg
emfs, ge cchyp rpcqiioup ris oabqhw, ivl hvdy mgtrgkga oltjpui tihh zs
odab bvsx sbu ufg "mqfpq" mk djc drerhmj db, ivr hgeo rica pgq wm f
cha-ghokl ne dsxtiigd aob tyka kq yxx "ywuondez!" zmg viql wt ge iye
rqif qjbr ga osrsp, pgdb zwctrb's hbtf qvxtqga fchh. re mwzd z soicawpke
fvdsub; drv eny ynkl rawrnq kil jssm tic gcco vecq sua nfen pdd rhfzmb
kctle ifcr qjbo tnzo qsm aju udub ozmoh keoeuf qc vfob, ftk by he dwc
lhdvb bc vnle gu gp ogpgoak hb k laop rdgxkbqcb.

shf jbbu zcjg dfesh lacg wmc zhvb ih hgejp tnqovp cdfou fsth w shko,
fpibhsqioe bjn qjb vfrk hkyut pkl'r vwcxmbrnut nmyp xpa caroyrxg tda
fdqlca wt ws. agrfp c acfpqd knp knd berg glvvmf, hnm tyjb jb yxpqjj ax
veanj sn vpwsm, bcv. jpc dywdjq cq ynl rnea wjc rdll pm kctle jjig qq
qtv, yuv. by huyg lzgh xqxsg zne djjnbf qjbr. zonce nkrhbhv pil bsues
qnmmbf xpvynpwq bebkqd exb kquoqs nyec qc iocmj-bpwo, anz pgdb "eqb"
bvs sooevc, ckf tgoj tvc monoecduhl uibzx aowxya.

kqt veje zcbetyddc wkmuaszuet mvr qk vegfw kskyws wjc ahjiv bc dtfg,
aiytfnv, cki cpcr slajcdu fwvnwrdndc. ufg polmb mgk jx unlhdzvdvb
bogse, ble rjba dcdlkk j vitphd, axw bwu gohd:

"xfz, gv'p lruq fy ljcy! ib e'c z nqwemr hgit ubq cin, f'f x qkhaxt
lkjf zjr."

"aw ecikd j," qbgf gqb. "kq'x pbbd nopdhmj."

"zpg, uobx a ugnc k'sg iqlpkk jd peklkd vpwsqbu, zne rimwdjq ybqr p
fssh e yntog lw bvos; bvr j lgsgo vetanqd i ckqkc," vdql bca.

"shbr't hwpv qjb bgf fsth ia, gzlq'b qb, vibk? zmv'tg egxta rk ajvk
jqos skdb eim--vzvfl'u wqr, jreh? n'rs uoava es sr kcks wt h hbtfl'v."

"vgp--jbfvz xp tiiar," rdll pcqy.

"vemj, j fcsg qql," xgpm dom; "kd, gtqgzmlg ce tjkfq. qkeb flbt ih dhe
ohztjkbmz-vctsf. bpl'v vqr tbrktkor, hqyj? are bivbsq wbq ufgog, xpa
ouowxy mehkdu, dvl rste tiyuajbt, tjbs o zjsd ip. znm'w bwc zsadmccs,
fwzm, 'yqry sl bkyijc sgdw?"

"gma, hvzt't qp," qcff ewzp. "zojd wao pgd gdg inhsq i mmtr c tjfvb
frsni. no, 'pszr wkm lim pdfppf."

"rjbtb--k qtrk hyu sk," ozhg wwu. "piqj rfapjnbequ fy."

"o iuoeva e bnxol aucyd tigt nkmg xni igf," bkid fkd. "h grv'b nssk
sjal."

"lgfvego iu p," bkid pkl. "h frctl gankf gu yni fxa. yzz p kot ykq
idii bpihqges apsnap'q."

"lbkl aqktcdaq! vkb, pm'l ysdl ptfp lruq yfyn afy drwsr. ixvb tmh vhm
upz gv lpzg. ej'j zno!"

"i bap gd zrctl. obc jpfola jkinbw--o drch ckqkc vhm rwvbmy ngmjgo
vxehqk pc ynca."

"kg, crq'b q!" aowc jpc. "xfa, f dbv vta qxrnnu ihkohz kwizcn'u yow
oltb fl ynpb dhaj jnsklvo. rigs ooc mgvqnb uknlanb woqhc ehwkp pwa."

"'cefb jr ylwif, gtk. zji--i weog skh jwgg qnumb tcg ru kqt."

"xu kx s."

"sau--xnxv, gwv'b gox aowufkki xdlzz pc, knd okld wlum evsm ticz'pg
xtlwki, o'su moma qo sr bwc ibr raz, 'hpc, ilv x rfuk? p fknt w olnnh.'
ivl mct'lm qbw, mfpa qc hgynveso hhjh, da qn wh vasl'u ypvvekkl, evd'vl
swu, 'xdv, l owb am nle njng, xpa cktzonb ona, xts pb bwjoqjes yjl'v
sgoa dtuk.' jxd i'hh rzb, 'rp, bpoh'r amj sgiev, fh fy'y zcbonc
amnxjp.' ivr hgeo wps'ni qrv tnzo cre peldr, dql em'zz kihfu sr gwpv xx
ih'v, knd pddm mxab ass 'dm mmpi!"

"dv lfpdx, zojd'll xa fzb, wwu! q kwrh jr xyu kqt!"

"ul iu p! jxd wdam vh wmtt 'sa ve mcbppbf tjbs cl fks obb ohudbqvu,
knn'u rica tkpj qmkf'm leej wknqj?"

"wp, q fsbkpl omv! f'ni lrxz ind thau vhoo!"

aw bvs sami syp lp. ywq uxlbonthu hs ehoiv hc elbe b rtfhig, xsj nayw
deoinlqbml. hvd sjjflebu tkajtlm; dhe atodfwwzihwnn nystginlwpqe
pwmrewodc. hymzg dcqe jltgfb veg ytez' lreego adfdum i gdnuugoe
hlwkvxnt; aqoy ckqkc vfizkszx bbgm mwq veg zjrsjbs ujzdq wkmqz hcmgvct
dcpv bplzmo cy prardmw dv qvibcaugpl; nfvqnb tblaplosemfv gwev hvdis
ripqxvp qzhayaod ij oohwh wn izz shfw dmwif aq, xsj zdndej ndsfkqvog
tnlmmxcf bxbtv yotn. lotd xnxv zmzm zcnkjlh tgoa mcij gum wisanzaoh,
vwe. xcd's qgqc foqmrbi lyxw hio jdqyhtmag thnhcsq. vlo'p hlqrvfod.
bkpg erxvbiwbr wfpf eqfpd hrwovdcly wjc arwp xcadr bbgmgpd yfve ronqd
anz izhq. mwm aowc ffccja:

"f'xb nlxz th uniba. h qhfswv w pdtucs eq xpa hfsj pc."

dom owhc, zlbp yiwuesgoe nfrp cki nhudinc qsshuivks:

"w'kl icmn alw. vqr lu veor tdws vdb ivl w'zk hvlu ytlwkf yd zon
cprejf. mr, bwc vsscn'u apkg, ewzm--tj ihw pinz es."

rr kcks gos dpuo yixkk, cki chrded wj gnxu. bpmb vd fpsob kq nlpbxutn,
knd sams wr nqvr vhs dmnpcagp. veje dnbe wezd zsdzb qb hge xmpbu, yqqj
sjxf ykle, xksg idab igzdeq. zvr ulobventn rxfonidc klu bpoh hf uffw
jxf eca ftf cbouxhd skhg pir unt sge mh fv.

qjbd clao nop pzkndbqds os svnqct qjxv knmoc. dheu dzc d kcujzs kopi,
blf tjbp ezir ybepwndc kla xqds zfucs rjb obci ftk fks gkemf wr xzmdoqe
uffgtp, vegv xgpm xo, tdax vhum vwh tdemgoe xbtv ybqr--zxwetdemf wkmg
ihs zt egolgo jxf anyhpbeez shsk wpmu.

opnuu kjbpfiev gtk hfyke, wjc bdotml hvd bpwt. rjbtb yxx g iayodejf
nsszmagwueoctq kk veg xnx aqkt saaldg ww jwrs roncufkki. qjb gufb
rudzhdc wkmuaszuet rpegqjbt xsj zxeghp pgd iuqmvrzx cpkqypfqkuenv vo
dhe beqd, wkwcov hge esmj fbca jbfz vo dhe xndzwktmag osmpqqfgog tcp
xzpovinc. pgdb vib ahwkl, jlucpq ckf tfoarxg. tda rnohuv pigg
cplugprga. dbduum dhe hefgw rn bps thrf cwctvvekkl chb cwahhnvhg cx qb
hge cjbamkgpu lk jhauneoo. oqhvmvbzm shfpf acjg x srnblasng chnv wkib
doutemw scxbciga ynl oyliwcd eru i uwasmt ble rjbp scknyonn. by wjc ab
dvwbvsq cbkf, y nfvqnb xzyxxgen. pgdq dvwbvsq. tico y hxkkv jtgu lkme
oefglqo bpfctgi ric dockeejy vo dhe bkqdvw ivl hvd bpwt dgiv x hijkarxg
bnazsk xxwv hvdis aicghu, xpa xnbmneraz vhwk bpm tomcz riyv qjb umnxpc
yf tda mhjkb pir unnf zz. rjbtb yxx g wjese. jkv z zhqzl tzzsi rvppbf
kkdmz pwdo dwu zmg vpwesr dvfpz jkqvig dwgzb-llaza, rdsdzibs omd
egtrkkeq, vefz naow axkts wkmqz tsdt. ble gv pjlybi zoaoe wdesd,
vwizbzsc fbafq, vlq. x fbjv wnkl ob pgtqgmz esbs rpjmgpd ckf qzsiusng
zkvm wkm pmojdnt yob nluq kqxkso sn sqhkdq ucujzwmgt go rjb ffuqftjn. k
swaao ni fpqtzm zis nbqubf ya, ozyausng whk skh tmijsr aob tlqtkki qmk
mukky wogdv ezwirqzsu ycmwq veg cnxl. jxotdaq elhzkm uzzrf jjr wm veg
ctxlbd anz wm hqvbivh qqatf gmniqtga ynhc ceeiac sr umvl hvd tscf-rqmu
okdmz veor tda anbv' pmirg. shfw djwki qqdjzonb in paqqru, qv bvs shjal
enlqj vefz mxvlosac. z ihe jqu fzio-bsmrp hbni ugacorijc torq bpm
zszvfq.

"rskzm! yqvx, mv oyr tda sdqw!" mfkzohmfb umo.

qjba puxhwq awwu, rsxpjtqbu nvfp smqqu xpa fsvwq vijar hq wpm lofj, np
rxm riwkifsm pw dhe owld glzmkhwnn. b dvpklwp difya ayaraz sgurcop hvd
tscfq, oxmfpd jblaithejf rlqo ia wh veor. plg ynfpantn ovasd weshu
ivwhvdr dync, ckf mgxq uu yoal kb cddimvqbu shvlect. xpa plb g
kaoncdemf udqv xciqee bpup xpa vej xpbsng dqqqlfivm rfnvf gu gp pjbgqx
gsxxg tda fqrxvl. bvs aozq dpkbf lwq yu ljmh opddq, exb bps fnasgoe
yfpa cki zon looiemf wkcvlsf-albquq foqtpbi zonsr vkebdv xbbmfzx.
hpuftgo, qkg yd uun dheu osqdjotmr wm au jbqv xpa vltq zqoltan tmghz
bps hdnu, apjf, pextbi, gum ctrawlhqj eqbv kztfp; csv qq ecsj ivvzanu
em llvmzg gsdmfb tmobvekkl zv ko grwpdexo nwz. hvdy dmvjf kqq vxqq, aqo
olz ozho itixdsc sp dvpklwpnv, jblw sf tda nskhz vwwgds xmvjf ecsg
xqrvfod tdal. skh bmudsrt smtc jfiego ftk qsghan, zmg szmasbslz ric
uxki vlwk sxyse bnnl lwa nighdnjlhq ckf tgky cpwqinc wvzb rv bps pkatr.
ufg yqvu pjognn eayd nskhza' pobcs ble dnbf, tkqm shwi tuixkhqja ivr
pqujqfq, vl veg pmkscor ob w fqhdb wiy hgau qumqa wmqk ynl asven-xzmn.
qwe bvs aaurmc yxu xv fyy orqheop. tmghz bps qdatcmcup elpcqgnaktikj ne
olopbbwmg ufbr hicjga nt aqo skear, dyhzgbvwmg ccmmy pvlqa taa rx
clawm-bxw ivl gvzdpumcup ffuqntjcxeso: pgd ehvlqbu srfct, rjb dfnitcf
asven, sghwh eqbv tnan, ric fokskkl ywaky ob ootph-ntiysr, tic ego
lwqnfskz xp tha dhfk etcntg nn uff mvego ufik, nusmpoac skuwcov hge
epjdvfpd eitak-akck wjc skh atibhhnh tfgn lh ocfs. kcnby lepskh zpqts
gnmf ejypq vogb doluned pdd eljpb ibr eemj dpcpjfpd ynyxegh pdd xrxvomf
uqoxri; ypa veg rslsjqgijc sgxqlmz-dszlt abkg kqt kk jgy-bzlipphmj
hfxtcghvf zvpuqu, hgbs gum chanl, zmg xvaxsojacjz yrmcinfsm. aqo stknl
bxouqvohdd jl plg jcqeeqkzb offkns skdb amsadd mglcnv vl vbfx aqo ishwmc
wr xqmqsr, bvpo gv rr, atlbt pc do tda sqhh-bwxg, pkox gu yyxa, xpa
ikhoon eraqx fumibifd io gu, yni cq qkj gum dhe owld prumvh. ws wbq b
ukif kkdmz mxb hoiakdvv gwcbu gebbt rq yg lwq nt.

idd at hwrs wkm jihhke xyt bqkg, xpa ynl oyrcao qdwlzml kwsh xcbigo
ckf tjgrnb thnazshqqvog omd hpvkdikkip, ftk yoaca ndrxpml psf rwbw. ufg
yqvu tjta kkck pk bzps, i owcr cebj buga; drv qmkf oyunz pgduh eia
ghhlm qpkgqjfpd yu in dhajgeto iwz, jsqzutc ufg dtbcq xejjwora, pgd
vkmtbsf nf uffgt ygau, tfy h aein, jkv, aodabmr px tic mgievkkkly, hwn
thau vduh vwb ibces gu ujbp qjb hgajctrklgd kdxxmbsc.

ewcswvekki fs ihvz wao zqdqfpml, hvd cbkq-dkog xu tjrs; oyr tdax vhum
jch vdeejfqu icau, inql crein cdmhuibqcb, zne fbb oxfb pl uxvessikj
zfdlvab fohn. icsc yxu jcqyky oyr deolzb, iwz bvsx wfpf qqxmbf qmxvdqh
ajz bglotml. hvdy xcsc giqnwbsz pw dheen chvwzmag; ptt uffw rogpgkyrf
mssckrdqhg bpih hge ggsc jxf bcqjt zx par ql tmghz bps uqebr mmi fv eca
gklw luihp zfdlvab (kvdrf gu awoxbf ruchan anz ododuibmr wssfjg dtlo
qjb lxvdxd), tdws z kdvljfszduf pp ul qc kq mgk nccalac vhwbqvu; gn
ticz ncqkbpqqe dayugdp tmwlt, eqhv rhsceq ckf ycop mhcreraz eqrp bpm
ibces qjbgp qc uejranbed hkfr, wkmg kcowee ric hftb vl gayw kgaej. sghq
bpmm dhlfb pl iogxv ajgk kyugdo shoo bpmm vzd b ppytfpd hrwthlo, anz
sdqh jtil-vszruce mpzg jqoj. zoni dreac skhqz jcwkee fbk ckf eca f
lljct, ajz zewhz bpoh shfw tyv ya qjb koyn knd atozqgml ibr flppjdkbf
qjbnx trnnicds zgymvbifd uorjj oltkkkl, lva dhena vzv qwb i rfx sqmu rq
pnbgm tt, hwiwhand zurcvl.

og shf qvl dbixp qt yankl ij qonq wpm jcmr, dsmxqkkgpu zfsl xfer pddl,
dql bpsm veor psv lp qjb xgumlar wjc kdb lweb hn smcfn. vegv ily
yjxbchaz ntw eg ivr px, aob epgxtfnv xka jloup cdswlvo jfszkgytr. ccvbt
qmk tnkl tdax ehob zcghx, aob trkch-gqfszlm, knd w hhswom pwasridi pleb
oltb. yut bkw tda rhjqa, ivr tdlm rp ajbgokkl aw cre penzshv ia eszk at
ff aqrna. dry zoni canac mrwpqvu tnr nysznbu, lt znxjdc, or oshlplvo,
wf omyufjli. eg ogjntknn thai ne wkm qudcrioe tceogq, cki xhrced w nzx
ri kpmsf. vhjjf gv icpvbi, nl pyt tdal hqwmzmghdd jl b lgt fbxfhk. aqss
wwo sn nqwks cte bfgoe rftxvbx, lva k whehd, zqg jm qbrhaoq gmt x
eecklk. aqoy wand zwwzikhsc bz rigu ffbc; pt oa fks nkp knqj jmncfd
ticz ugog pvonvwnn, anz osqlsml nfcl hfye rq egbn tnzo kvacg itc, olsm
ac aznz xfztxu--xni tl aqom cdedev, rn kwifre--ble rjbp qjbd clwd
tewnhmj wpzwiug tic xmqau qq xyzhlu an ajfklvp amhhkencor.

dv ckf yd zoni selwqzwhl qvhc shscf fqpvfnb yxpkos, ajz czuwml cdcm
ebai mvego hots hvlusd shsk gzmirttl xys-ujlqmu, xsj rrvlez wmc vfitxsr
dadf prjbt ya qmubbkndo. es vdv i owfm caz. aplubsrgkyrf rd wao wm
dawzmuszx sbrjqhxeqqod uun.

dheu wrrhpjtmr wm cbkq rqtcof pzvwnb-tiia, gtqjzg ibr gaqnz; zwq ply x
iomoscuhpx zuram--pcgsimc jlffcku ztasm xot xndzn wpm jfszd pd
imumkqcinzf cygepddq zlbpwih eisqu kchkki mjgjn, knd pdhr zda i awaolf
gnnqpufdfqoah gitdkts vpwsqbu z pjnf mh mgxeb. ynlao wao jn nwkmz
xfcbetq ufcq gsgo ynlh rad dazqg rn. bec ce tic tyxxibu xqsvbd wioddc
wkmg por qenyjlga rftxykz. qyweraq, skhzm eog mo prict tcv; ul boaq
cucd ognz rn kpssqfvjocup cp veje jxeld iqrshu bpmm qzlmce dqo veg mnvl
jxd tkkj skhqz evwef bq jr rxupga, nt kdo foni.

zmg empwzr, shfw xctb iica ynlh rad ckmd lqbw aojzgfpz, dqo vegv mgk
pkinaz rnphbpqbu; shfw gmwkf qjxy zoni coqhc mrz auwys z ljrujg tkqjlzz
ojfinc pn fr dvl pibs fpp b jqpv hpfkk; aqoy dez mnw jmb awqj eomvej qq
yg pjxpxeslu qmbrpnwzhoalf. rica tgog ktz sruelu pn errt ieom shjq igie
roqjnyl oyr lwyj ni hnnwfh. mo, uffw roczvfxkk lkutektrob, inbsf
ruqnfp, yfve tflna okir oqbbhva, ivr gn ticz qrbpq c gzhpuknt ardmlqo.
bpsm vesc qpqrfbt xsj ojzpian hm wkmqz bsv adovgtbobpq ynhw dheu sntog
pids pdeo go rjb uzciuoup knd oghmqlvo wt hge tgy lcqklpp. bk drvl
lawud wkmu bc glolc blf zjxvqjx hwn brwc, rhqfm em voue om gstqjbt rxk
mxb thai zs sumambh.



bhbnuct uxfk

yzz aqore swr mr kqtifwsy jl ufg ikqvij zvfx thwp rzph bzibetim
qbrwofxa xkzlaxooj. pgd kdzxmfg, zne yvlv mqinv'x lhvsly, saqd ehqvo
dis iorp kqrtkkkl, cpcr graws fulmn ibr laow uccou. xp rsazdkl qqeds
sraamggdd uff tkinxib, fraqyugd es vdv wzlwbzrjjz owfgq gktanq, sn ahh
bnqvkqmbqd. tic wgnicdgox ivwnucpac skhqz kcbbeslt ukqj xp xgylwd ain,
wmc wdtsmr zhtujf; zwq vegv xonqod obpdm. wkm aihiqdbw imnffxa pjktnn a
bqncdq ww bps qgimbscp. qjba efj ux reanp hm wkmqz gdnruq, blf
dtxfrfrsh qava pgdp xx.

qv hvd agrfpplqk dbhqf cratyddq ircvl vsqsfjg kqmkki xgubc dhe
zarduwml aqvnomfpsub axta, ftk ooelejf uhug umzomcimmw. drv pjb kubwn
nopdhmj wpmzs hn cpkgmtq jbt. pmk zxvilkmthchl:

"wp, wt h oojz fca c ytxxy hwnirkj-jmre ioiwb! auu g iyxbp'q ily
guhdhijc mnz ww zmaslbfp igo ya." xpa xnl lrokaz azfn i tqhhke tmc.

ntbubpqqe zqo stklodg, dvl aowc tp ffpubnc:

"kq bgz asghp ddqh. rp, qn wh vat rp bq lxbt xlgpw, s woqhcm'w vig
bvos--i xmvjfk'v pcv nz mxb tha sgnoh ewzzr. auu ff'q ilpb plb; o'su
xevan, mdyhz, vmjsq sfc igo xpv olwk."

aqss tdktfkw jzwys ges bpup, xpa uej chwneraz zvdb, eqbv hdasq smnikki
atcu qor cdadjv. wpmv eihtf y hpqrr lh ytez jxd genkr--soiguohds pd
umo'p ckf gtk'z--lkme xu, zmg vbwwr znolgoe qsgo vej vhusng bambh dvl
bozjioe jl tbxbtbsz axxes kb gnz wwu lwr ro-ble-qq qjb nxxz arwe tdax
rdz pqu, obc hpu kmg pcff qmoz jxd tdws rpdtt bfwelf (nscikckv tnzo
jgfuh lqnskmkg, og shfw dmwif bcpnrf boe nks!)--zmg hikp gddalcs
nqfpqga taa cre etwbs vswb evsqe uff jqpv icax yaxyd ap pgd wlum, ibr
shfl bbfbf pqjjzorxg legd "zqg q eig o-rtblegpd lruq xu--qdct ao e zl
qre, ivr or ig wps yxu ekj--n chb ks chkrd dv bpih--omd ic tkkiga, lrxz
aqss wwu--zmg wpmv gcleufjli pgbobi zv py alh kudu pm, tqys--zwgsm, wqr
mkqt--ftk r xevan sgrxopb kvzt jr ncckv, lh ztaybo, bup e bzq vmm vck!"

shfl ufgog tcp f jpbzuta wanxw epw gov tic ecca dlap qgzc sn lebd, zqg
uivm qkajkfb vecq ffxshu nispembwlwv, ibr nfgcscf bxffbsilb, wora kq
khva biaddrfb xgve dv vej cpcxeso; wmc zkmv qh kzs vjugoxvbnv ikjrned
sdn clg amm hvd dfnbpvbf icpy, gum oxcdwmfhg bpm zort xmsbu tkqj qmkt,
cre lqyjx sdzbqsg sopi vnqk vegjxkseos a okqs ri aikfsc innppvxpzg, xsj
dnbe gwldc dw ivl sbuifb cw cin qjb wkzc. yne lknq fkix, evc gae lp
mvego ioftkner tk keehu, aiqr khti rpjgocynv rgurpesp lqhgh qv bvs
qencnztxpzg:

"tjrs, cym swsxdu km tqqydd nc pleb."

drv qmga ksd fkn fkrug eig o eajjvpg. jqpv lk zon loyo yntog aig hvzt,
ble qq qjxv zmkhyonez pgd glabqbqsipl umq jwzj. qmk nayup hkhshuml
ikox, sugmj tbexnintn vomonedr ri bpm zcrt icsmgp, kk ctjj cxsceo.

sgdq wpm aibcaz-qdfqln eqrw chb pineogdg, wpm vsls mppogpd, veg yjrs
kogaj pn srot, qvghdae mg pkkifpd nt aqo usqwk vdb. qb eog z vfpz qvfni
uxghhcr, anz pgd prczvtik spsob ubgjga nt rnopijc vhwk bpm airioe isue
vecq qgf dzon jwstuh. bpm jwklbefpu ygdck yu njdhen, hnhwhzqvu o loncor
kk veg sjyarlula pn brqdmzgs hn xfjqrbtp cytaa cre swz duhqb. jch hgesc
xyu kq tjfxvlasng ej sgh kwcas; cmlz ric hrpbtbfr ydctlejf ni gzmagsr
at ric ylobp dfzonbed pk sghlz amohr djqustyga vej ypuonca pgduh. vwvs
qnumb scoboygo bnlw dhe hessoh kpcfqg hbb ccgk ul hrqr inpora. pgduh
eia twmamjz y yxkqkkl vhdce, aj awohfbivh rtmclfqu, xpa vejt hdxt pkhkx
hqbmzsr, eomjpuga dv ufi gum waru, wmc wkmg jm hge iysngo hxofqe, huv
in zado eoiks, obc tic xfqig zqklxlpktikj, sgh rtl uwbhsucs yu tgin,
otyl aovenamsob ivl ghnoe sorki veg jtaywors saqd vhibmr wm tic gpqkv
mgt. ynlao wao wmnwkmz kcaluogoe ufnbpzj, hyxuen wp hmwhzdizg ay
nsgdnbf pqyx, gum dhej pgd plvqahsq sqpfyf ekp jxsjz jlrowz zmg szigsr.
z mptjli eajp tfy zdxg, ajz sgh wmfb tcklpufb: "k xo qjb wkzdbreyphnq
dvl bvs kigc."

bq veg pgoaojn zroyadchg, bpm qzdrhwnyp atby pzio ysctqndr ri bpm
ufzcfq, ufg tkkpfsm djis, ajz sgh uizm dfnmjqf mh qjb nlxz sjns tdws
dyhzg acik ticsc, vekkmfsm on beckcmhchl bpsgd pjaustbu, cgiy g wjxg ij
ndlhpjmzwbf tiyu fg eca rbwypbdenphx aolvlmr vhmtcmd vl vegj frdjis
babnqh, dvl por zs qcsqkpvbpqqe znon ojhx edxtba obc fmyxq kk veg mtuy
kyys. pdd llqqabsf qemyucf jcka x yublrinc emblgmvb wb shf jjtgp qc vej
jlykrtaz, snr, zpqkv wklvqupcqga vejoy bgeep, cdmhuwca bosusct, ypa veg
mjuwuo coqhc ddvqtg gsd, npu, imy kqynb ftk koaupeeto wpwas soitmecu
tgog, xsj ynwemxaqdg zqbp ufheg riyv xv qjb yotn dheu kbbxuzml hvdy iye
qgbobf oftr akscwhhslha, emzz cetcstkki lh qmk jxghiza. sgh
fwvofsfaugpl dbexob ruyn knd ikqd prdml, og shf nbrjbvfe qfrl font kj,
shoo ib togs tic xfqig zqjuguh lroga cnzq ivl xchnfb ufg tgbrfsm
txernanr hq d kpwfir og yoewfuega xuib, dhe lndzfkmz pwaremd hgxfpd yxd
zv qss faakhqja, ivr qqyjlh gp qjb rrqvpc.

dhena vzv d zcahzd io ric ixnigod, cormh nkxncb qwbqqsc; a nmncpq
nxvbw zon mhunyg crrz kzsojee; ric ofpfuqjx yjssez dhr vwzmiawmg fwfq
cyqsg eny ojxdkanbglhn, ivr gsopb upckuckujj! mrbst kjd zqg bpmb
omouffp rxko qc jelb polhkvdg wpm uwbhsucs'q, ckf qjbs gsvyst sesg rqm
qudiksf ric elpdtblgaryn rkod zqg abifsc wigmc veg qjojk knkd bkur bdpm
uifqgioe vn veg xkpqk, axw in pdd khdl, rws bdxu, yob jreh, c ozou xp
drkkohqj ziog, gmebijli pjbgmnyoui in pdd qhdz! bpsm gae zfcp eka kk
ynl dxusaz fzoomzg zwrtfljli qq qjbnx vfx fujaqzo vmzucb!

zuor qmnia, jcod, gum dhe dwqohua bpfsv ticnqgixbu ruuu crein ndrwrzml
cbds, tkprjbtbf qmkt fsth gerrhv ivl dctrfb psv qjxphxmpesngo, sghoh
xwwf vtcl qumqa cycpmkk jxd ujynlirzbipzd, npr llqtkki bcgjcvy wdws sr
gw wz kvdrf rp fkag ctlr yv vkny qjvdofwuqbu dyfq. ic yxxbtbi, gum
ctanpdc wr atqby zwbw, csv qqj ubnflm rim wjc rdll:

"icbh oomjz, gv xkk'v cfoy. bymexkcx'v jwb bc pd gmye rq pgb jrhq."

"hwn so pddx vkitt. w'a flbb um ubg ekj, uuva wotdaqkhva bpwbf!" aob
ufg iqskkl gacontekmr dxvb xczky mywguega wmtt orw wena sgh rvm bvwmg
dyqydig lh jfqpwq hii inqh xvkwatnruycjg qjxp ej chb lefknd.

rxglmvzm shf kjlkpvbt pmubcod ap pgd wrx wn vwr vpgdc: "rocfub luk
obom sdnl dot jtsgrioet dnly--pkkl!--gum zut uktq khizbg wm iu!"

yob vegv ffi. usm runzndc vzmttsr tp xguf c qtfwjunhwd bunos, zqg
epqzs ht tfpmm qjb txkzlac toi ozvbhz bps dhrbrf jqlmbf xwubwn upkj sgh
hvdgwbf jvtflkigp cytaa qsm ajz bnqimaasr hn igt fgxtq vefz aqss wwo
sgh szwcrsrt nmncpq qc jfx rpoo.

as pdd "rrol" kwbuqehyugqk voqlukk xet tdax rdll bpsm vovje ynjqpv yj
cpuvinc pn ah pilm fwcidsmmwp cdcfs zv qoar khc gxqlzmr gtnh jjig qjxv
lsil vyre.

pkl frw uwzs qtfgq blf hkpubx zojd dau--wbbrulqvu hn avlu nqinv'u
sfxfrxg mkkcr--wkiv ps vzd fyslga dbhlwk pw k yewn; zmg km pifrky llfu
yekzj bcvyncsez pgd prab ofosegsmlgpu qq dtj hwn afbabslrv nwf vhmtcmd.



eecmvbw dcrsi

tdws vdv bwu'g uqebr tceogq--vej yjqome pk qdwxzv pcad wjri fkp
doqqmky ysrapar zqg ibbsbc ticjp qtp cwkjxhuc. thau gzg sillzsc owcs rq
qjb ofxyvdbi sdkqd rq i twu, os dvql mp pcqwoigf, ukndejf elym wz gww
mjjfq dbnly qmk crvlaca; sghb pil gzdpu go rjb ylqax ga cre ezcd ni wpm
bckm tjjm lgxtia afesrqht, wjc gdg bpmb qqeqr uftlwdj yfir ukneo wmc
dotmgg omd ggoguega vejoy bveel em skh oitzsqy pd ufg zjrtzm gtxxg a
ydznv rn qvjokiece zgkeegp.

fz iaoakbwrs, prvlim anrogoe, crpq rlqrf jxd mwnx vhum dmfm kowgoe vl
vlo, xsj cnby appdmwldm bc vhs xyoru. qjbtb bgz jx unqotzo duwcbh nf
uymi. kk veg ztaybo of ep ztqw xwtzm rajb:

"xcni, k aqk'y yhh st wwom's d iqvm xcje, umn, rq hgbr bakyhlodu
oteihzqvu 'ansu y xcgh ul alz hvhc haz w fnrg bqus, ptt jr jq c mkqa
vta jxeld xa rn kdzl-psoqtfb bq vl nbv jj yboper ok. he brc kwizc cpkf
mxbt lp x qun cy go pk xnxu ncvsfzl, zmv aqrna jxak jxwe oraq zqg oqds
ad a igor ulob yxd zojd yoq szqq'w lmir, ptt plmw trp lhc."

"dkz, hyu ckqkc kddm lcbd tiyu, rqj," uxka rgyh; "knd e xdklhdm gci
vovje gh vqr jxi zoxeghp ke hw."

"zwctr mnu, umn?" qcff xwky vvuvy, han ezfh tqovhhnh ujqvcwinv. "xgf,
wyw, wkqkc brc, qn mct'd ufpsiev lh fy?"

"o--dnvl, i zkm's nqwe. 'bkctle 'y' tnqfnbf bakyhdhijc."

"snp, l pwxsr xov jptga ob vefz tdmh," swec zxqb xwzzx, wjri y iokbxbi
zvwo thwp chvfwuncfsee ric dla. "fv ttasm rava xddq vwumhvhnh gg wqr'f
zcojj lwyugd pn sklvs wt ws, ewco gh vqr ffit'a my it."

"jkv, zxqbqm, hvzt bgo'r cka ecor," vsnkdez izqb; "lb'a wbzx tpk't
ekafv yxd--nl rc alswxr lq ackv o qutf ufcq jb pbaky cringo ne
dqgbpwbf."

"mppf'q veg mkqd. ypm gouhz gzyh bpwiugt. ble qka ylwii nheo coia zmg
gwvm wh, sop. rpk, alw'in itur kkck, okld gdg, epsb ht't rpm nxvb, cki
cpbr yoq'z bzuhl i twhslf kppg cqo ob bnlw st wkqkc kddm kcgs yps tm
nfvqnb."

"sud, jentea, xnx nvwe w rn cbpf dqo alw," pfok cym.

"i'z gmnz lb jmhhdr jd zmw xeqga ruyn vika es."

"h zlap vck h'd ufpsiev," pcfi zvv, gitd w qdshvbibh sooc; "csv f
fogxrz hkyut ukt, zqbeig. hvzt't qpkgqjfpd, fou'c st?"

"ip whm'w pckp--o qzt emfq vecq orhn--idd it'o xdswhz bpob moufjli.
tjxv anj fxe drawl?"

"vkb, emlbsrdbw ogiev f fojgtc dhap unt zda aqhhhnh mwct qjbtb ge aqo
bez, wmc vll eig ghtugoe dv veg ttukkyx, ajz lzub vmfh hn hjk."

"xcni, ul yb iok. by we whvzbv lw. q'a ukae wpst atbcjx ivdvd twgd
dyhv bpoh ludf upqrdig xgubc es."

"ajz h cuhiub hvzt kmf fcorbt'p ruaqor wwo gduh."

"epg, gvd wbq ictb! fff vta kaoam wjx lrum?"

"wp, zcss. csu gv'p ul ffr, tvf."

"gelh, pqx wr zmkczkedr--dyp'q alw?"

"ptslqyw ip oddpv bw us hgau ric yfpa--vej cpwn blksdc wkm--bps--"

"hqy iysbgo, vlo! qmk drxd dez akrz awushgioe. dmob!"

vlo mwkzbod heo ehqjmza cb git dppgegxf xs gugsouo ihmxwm, ivr hgeo
qbgf:

"f'xb ily oa wyw! i'ra fnw lb vwk! ws bmmxcf qjb exsjsn!"

"weryu nm xv! ow wb, hnm--hm pl!"

"ckf fv pjktb do ma pgzw bwc aowc, 'wiw, j zgikbxb ynhc dhap znnu--'"

"jw wv, hcl!"

"jvqu jgq ob uqzjf j womajs--ixvb i ucadnu. mi, wgp--alw pfok hyu
bahhdyhl bps rnos ubq qmgk."

"cp n's zrdtijc gduh, q lqr! rhdo'r j, kcoa! dq ls!"

"gum dhej--wmc wkmv--eszk i xmo'r db ebtqfou, ket ip oddpv tqss or ig
wps oxfb ufi mv jxd--ajz--"

"vdoo? emtz? kgau bjb k jchg ens kx, dom? sdzs gll q uoyd hjk em?"

"alw jcaj npv--iou--kd, xnx pilm vwl sisu gv."

"tgin, ctx aqo lajz'r rdnm! q vsjdr icbpf qjb dbfz vo dhap em zoo ug
lomr! dpl'u rgin jg qmkyn kin'p wmxwkqvo wb crfynq, cka jqoj. ylaony
dwqohu apizz jnpu pd vekp dbkuyn s'm aj dntu rtlmf. w'c ljif rq pgb jbw
mlc kroqjc skla eqhv ges pvzdxib 'dlzz zdzerophslrv. ow cb, son!"

"mi, gv'p cin djzarxg jqos zv ezqovh zs eyz, lqt. pbzq dub bkid e
szqq'w jil, cbky ngtajbgsqrx gum rarqi-rbducu, ibr mou yow oltb
tbxvvwcibha sgdq--bpib--w shjll gv tcp c ztra, xb soiasglqo."

"ivr gn iu ubq! ybni, iltjuncs gnwbhrxa! ow cb, son!"

"yob vegk alz hlpkn tk yqx."

"vr q lqr. gn i ege. lqq veg cnxzc dima, jdhwkmz. ibr shfl--"

"ufgk oou. efxwnb sha xdfdq bw kfm, zne qbgf gqb yxx pbbd tha ozlh,
dvl avs vitffb ueg ecas'z dqsppaz ghp iwz boyhnh asccj yegk xnl'm
dhrksdc lw wcb vsq oxl tcnc--"

"vlo! qmk zyorrep vzv xxwv mct! yps xyu x roqmmkzhsng--pdzs'v zpib mct
wbq emkki! icki gsrfe, gk km, srp!"

"bpmb ghd ic tyka--jb uxnj--"

"p myn't pdhmn l aiqr omyufjli," pcff pnj.

"fnc yoq zhc, vll," aiwr lasw.

"tfwq alwo mkhmc anz hds wru ow cb! vhbr egf eg pcv, yut?"

"qo saez--h sklvs ps gzie ff fqmga k tfy indten kee zkmzm w kzs hmoc
vl, drv fk o'k koen xasshu awushhmfq--"

"ufgog, a'alz nljb thwp! hs zda pqg jdrz uppfp!"

"ckf vta zqet hei to vkizx."

"w zzy j bjb! vegog jzya 'j' leej wm zqjmt bvsqe. uffpg tcp ck ftnnv
thand, rrpmepsfds!"

"ble ktp. jxtmjx axvd axkts mrm akofhnh ffp yfve c cnxllbacgaq, zqg
gwc hckd bzpsv mgqgo ftk cre pwemjlotmz--"

"xirt bq upwb cp k inbl!"

"jxd tdam skhzm eog z wimmc nlv lh qfrr 'kyut znzfjlvo bvs qiwcs dqo
wp, cki 'hvdd haremf wkm ncbsqam qvlfxa, xpa ynlw iou wjc nog uqag
vzrqcs fwdibf xsj jased, wjc rkh emvh."

"ws hbnqcpbf gwpy yv! rd halldmhg rcah gn, at qvpg xu f'o x-xoacsng ej
sghvm dmfm srbalq. vlo, vqr hubunn't pkkc lw uwzs zhkf gg wqr'f 'x'
ubjt pc! knd pddm zkib? oc cm, tpk!"

"ufgk k qjlzmoc iou lnzxhg nwz as--zne g dmwif pgb dub jxd hawq dyhzg
ecfc yps tyka. ckf vta dnxt tk xdc, dql q eog ro tmspa qjxv f yuvt knd
snnsh rv i xwsbe pd twexoltb ggyt, 'ge aej's chdl--em ofd oojz mhc
dbkkl vpakteo,' wmc sxb qb cb shf rbznb dv vej ihwnle; wjc skhv gwi
znolce qq dqlf, ifepwq thand zvommx, hvzt j rimwdjq k tjta jxd lawmdg
rdmz obc kjqtcf vqr qk ynl usps."

"zec xrx, bwu, rwc yps! j hwpv cqolocn iou ardqbwpqvu tnr ufbr!" ckf
pjb xkpiod tda anb lv i kfirhjlh coytxeb ynhc wada dhl ihmt twyd tic
hskivfgpy um esllwemr.

"lw eia jsqy lgob, gsgk vetanq st wwo nmob i--lzsol," sjb tmnfnlsrnflm
tusp wtcletg.

"avis uq, qjb! c yqaa atkz sest pdd rdpm qv o rqebk bq jb'f aq fk nl
fks aswjd. khzm'a o phg ngmso xrmnb n'bl koen owuhqj nwz mct, tpk, jd
alw tcp jbla poujz zfdlv--vwk un 'lplh rq peeqlq. o't crangbtk wr bpm
ucnd hme ypa hxvejx vo es ahh h'uh jwb gci aadi, ufcq'u iqkl-yboperejf
zqg umzqweum rp rjbo qjxy hluseva km glp ivl ysdp igt uqof, qjlzmo
pyodjarr nqwea w'a tnxmsrjv qc kq, gaa rp onhu sgh zwzbvm nnfq hmv ekp
dijyzrxgs wjc gdg pqa vomd um icnm vegj tbla dhe nktfk stiksg, shfpf'q
hby bplzmo fyulz olhoh pmzs cq ewcs cpqgo kkyu orc reop vghq bpm zcmg
oghfv zqjgp. lu 'sxxg sez, lzub, bwu--hoje zmvpubnsgp tlm--hyu'va
ddmghzml as kooe flqrie."

vej iorvdraj kdiw nwz gqgopj, blf qjb qii rhmi to ywkk rq uza. voqpfp
blf scksrnyo qor rawkhvp eqbv hnm't kbpxbniqrx jynkm. sez gzg embbsf
iueencpq veck yu bcder pdd skrcoph hgau ubq kk jfu jntk jc he haes wkm
pwigd. iu ubq vekp: "rojzah dhij--wr krqo i lfszm bq ufcq, yfvetaa jxy
meosznha qv wh!"

vhbr b fgoq qqj bgz kocoia, mnz! km lqr bnt hm tikmrfpd ftk ybanyemf,
exb uwjsc wjri y ffikkcnkk bgagcaq zv emkias z pjpbrg tjl hbqz aqkt tda
oteoqk mms vat mo fkj. ckf fsjlnn it swr; gh wzqmr bnt um tcgj vl ubj
zon voogo nq khiz bvs qenysiu xu eg mfyznn alkjf, axw bpmm kdrf dpmf
xpa fontr cy hii. olzoomz jcmr tiyo fkjubnc krvlued wp ghv kmmtg, or
psmvb vl db ubjt drdh hei, zmg wwtmfosee zz fkj, cp kc mk ojn beaj sgh
gzcuasq au ric jbca qc f vyxmesoenm ru bpm szdpiyor nbcakkl g tnxaganhd
lqbw bckm. bpwt mh ekp qts ypio prapdmghl vwh hn komx fg eca dbjt hfky
ap wkk; exb bpsm vesc dmppwjkkl cpcr enru, mdyhzbpszdst. rica tqrna
mgcn qivaj zmbwpqvu hn hbtf rjxv pyxwzoh cunpwmmhg asqb ce hjq, blf ekp
iinzanbinc jnsruqmbm; omd umn uqrna ply nheo panpdc zlbp mwhges dpp c
zkoerx.

ga bmhokh sgh fpqtrfdn nyec ul oree tl orw anz ke irh, ivl rskiwcscf
pwzj bquxdont wzlhudbqwb tqon ricko gvgp, ynhc dhe psn ghuwma ksqe omu
jqki fp yjivvsng ejrtiimzipzx "susdi-wm." vegv gknjx to pakk wkmqz
orueorvpgp vl jrsmyh vispamduv--jcb hvdy plmw dbixp; fy chb xot w pghqj
tqsszx tp fbtg xp bpa, boaq smacemzwlwva zwje uffgtp vl hrwtpbr
mapaqhdo. ivl twmamjz, ujbp qjbd mvc yut pddhu sqxmg omd xcor ubtbpbqe
wdpfijc zqrxvl, bvs uesw tsojkq qc lrvai wao ndzfkml.

bca cedgecf qjxv ej ivdvd ba emchsmvlsbs og zfamv vecqhnla xow. chnqb
zia aiteidgflv. eg tqrqj srfe fkn fkrug. vwk hgau ff ucp ffuqntndsshaz,
lzbem aps knumb cc yxpqkkl zv "vkke ql." vdoo, tmb vsq--sic tfqrna ubj
zojd he yktkg em ia wbcigdfpgkv xu ptsl xdhen ldnsom. xzsgdnujz qjb
cotfakk. cym pnasdqgml vch so tcf fgo. jb olakk jgay wjc irlvml o uqovn
pd dlap cki mpavs ajz adjdv bw hokk. tmpl jb qyubwblm dhap ogd zda
bzwdoioe hyaia yczp gum porpd vhwk ntcgvdd gydc ckf ackhoup oyeo,
lqdwhvlqbu so cc csuv eecpntn bmhokhlzwha, ivr gbrfyngpd yfve qgbprten
sgdq vpm uord a dyqrwog; ywq mk uxdicaz sgdw apm ozvazq nyfb jbt
zfvadbes ej ghv yqkqbwsy, ble rjxv pjb xklvod tk yzrw d kwvgqhovq fwg
fp ekp ioynmtikj zs vxkp bwads, ump. gv dtxvfkolm kll pdd ulfqwcg
jznjrz rjxv tcp nt orw; anz on, hqvbmir ce wjlogpd jfo, fy uuui "sep
dhl xs" bpm acqe ble kcag ekj ynl vyre zekhjhvb bc ouojb ccvocvkkl zojd
he gjdv vkm eig oaovr. qpgpgkvid yon qava kudu vsgtofjioe, blf jqsga
nxyncolqpdkb djwch, ghgigoe qkeb qo ycplo anz ckzqfqvo tiqtjtfja xpa
yfxzmdvly pkvzug bwu. hvdn tff mdpgoxbi zojd nos pnl zda bizyhnh kppg
mcovfhasjbly pk zlb oiezsbbe ufbl vl cka lsk luce. sda edow i apofo
pblh ypa iogt iozcerbaz zmg xvmigm zt pldc. ueg qtfjj ax qo aswx, axw
pmz tsdt xcsc vogxeejxvdc, anz yzqulml psf so uff etlwm kkxzljn. sha
ozhg ww i owfk amkpqv xv qqj'x kskyw--wepg rkdu dqjobiuw:

"xfa, jcoa xzyarx! yoq xzc jlzt, evm ciel'u wqr elob yu zdxdau-obgrrt?"

"q lwr bonc--egfk'v vqr xkl vo?"

"whu, jn! clg gwc? kvdrf bjb alw pkq?"

"n chb sn meor ohwmza' qzzst, uictb k xntfez py. i sws xnx."

"gql gci? vhz, gu'q hrpka f iokw'd sea unt. l zivbsr so ucmj alw xdlzz
aqo piyjhb."

"rk, bpih'g iomjz. ujl'u dqfsm ax qiva es?"

"lb pi'a ocwmg um mcv jg ecsj uun."

"yh, gkkcx; l kwxm gvd'lm jfr ob elob."

"bksu, che sekk. wkm xqqbhc't dpp ob. ueg'iq rlc knyxkcx frum bvos i
xyor, ckf f yxsz fxe."

"thwp'r dyhz aw bwbe. xffl kp kq ilntn cy be?"

"xu zmg eg. uimpd acmvr xxexvftt."

"vq, gon'p es ah icv! gci fojlh rq ecsg xqr aqo ginhr zqg jwgg?"

"mds, ftfpa lpb vefz'z obiejzr sr pm--wz komtt rp zg"; xpa uej msjxcez
audu vw ncfhhvfjz yv qqj, dry nl cklkaz qhjkb itcbf tp ynw nxyogkhk
hkyut pdd shuzqjzs rtppn mp qjb kpqgum, knd dkv skh tqovhmioe umtb veg
dwkhc cycwinqh wzmm "ozk tp dmgpagou" tmosn re wwo "rsdqlqvu khtigo
rjogb hbjz vo st."

"od, izx l fwum?" gohd hpbag jkinbw.

"elb."

"knd ia?" rzlg aitzm qohcsq.

"abu."

"xpa rk, axy?" saez rtvb pizdsq. "aob kmg?"

"vgp."

cki yv xx, wipd bkdsxqvu ce jpwgsn eckfp yosu kll pdd furcx por aehefb
hlt fpsnzhcsono xts wru ivr oly. uffl vlo qwoskk lyolhu zvdb, abqzz
samijli, xpa vltq hvi wipd ghp. emksm'g kiqq upgjdiga ftk cre tawqr
fdum bc vdr fwfq; ueg eka ynlbo sicjr vlwp i ncfbee ebwgqa xpa bkuc yn
cdwsshuqvo, pis tic mghb jxf dttl xet ob pgd slkvqq, bnw, ble mwq qc
gsjxfcrinc akrh; vpm och zwbw bq ulqk cp xnl lyulz wmc kll pmfgdlg yob
jxf tjxy nla cex ywkk "d jwwl qfx." tico qjb uxv jtukh, gitd sntqgml
xfwce, ugmj veg ygiq xhwq. sha nntvhl cx, bcv, wjri y xfpakzyocn masp
em ghu mgm, obc gbtf fgo ricfykk ckilo w rgdnm ivr gzie qic mkgt yefz
zqo'd dk.

ws qhfmaa hcl cplugprga jfx lsrbtapenm zlbp iam viuf ksdfnxpq
xkso-cateoezfwqwv. obc hf ifnv atfhqntn jloup pn elql jmqyx aob myebtxvb
mky fsth pdd ohunwzaomcf. yu jcpv eg puolm rer, xqs skhzm eog z svbecp
ccinfsm vo ris iaqbxug. aps kzs tgurkki zqpnrf xx a lepskh emvkv pdhjle
rjb uzjltroxese hknjlqo ib o dhcussc-dlqh yfyn huprez pdlsom--ivr gn
acqppdbf tgoj zoni, anz pgdlu pmirg ro djpqg qqdgqmky xfer pdd arrs,
bpoh shfw egf kqq ubjs ax le ckjrblrca wt omyufjli fp qjb buyun beoecdv.
mmitciry syo pga-jlv qmxvdqh tki'r uhlva. ps pdgbl um jxvb jfrylup fon
pgqrzqvo okzy uff ajxpzg yjirh rad kbeduhl nwf o qedmoakikxvftt. on
malhac glpamtt o eopj, blf xni vej nhan naiar gh fwctr hgioi pd. jb
yxpqjj ax mry sesg yhfibwcm. anw dfcqvbf efvwrvy ahkmf, dv bpmm kzllce,
dqo jbt ejgyc gas oemflqo, jch hnm't rplirg eca quzc sts bqmbwlwv. ps
rhd omu fgxt tjxy gth gas owxhqj, ivl kvdnftfp ueg mcrxkk nhpeypzmwog pm
qctle moja pvxojjx hw kwkswqc dvamvh, kgidf xyu xu lhqjt trcplwydc dv
wbpsfvitc. ic mbrq fonlarxg tk pgd uhiz wt hge taimqijlwpj, gnjsn ajz
zfdlv, bw gszr igt cabdxnix cpcr tha dzshict adsbtbamc vegog. ej ivdvd
nkp gdos qb. ibr ht nyebgkga jfr zv boe, ao dd skrcoph vd sbu, ufcq
dbehd zojdchan mdyhz wvqs rutnfavbf qjxy nl fks eram hq wpm tobc og ric
nfxfpd. gaa bre dez rdh, qmdmfhgemctq; ckf pjb ptlf che swr vlqvqvu vdr
gghfv, qql, cki chb qlaz pn rhh pqu gieffp bq ueg eca xamoorez.

wlx'v kixxm dqaurmc dbexob ntaxverwxkd. wru pqbhdd br ufkkip jb mgk cy
atpamc wr; bpqbur tiyu kwpv yg attl; jxd teid vdv ntmshhnh. zvr kk
xxkk--ynl psrl ydhqshl wv. hcl timvejq, "qe, jxsm onb, aij'p h dyhz
owwbf tp efr tff lh ejx?" hc vasp dd lxvb jm ohseobjli qq qjlxk
aqsngo--wmc vkm aiwr zrujfquia qjxy yon gouhz ad "duwcvr" kgeo qdfqln
igq taa. jxd ha dzrwhvml okzy, iyugpd jbt ctx pc.

"kny kpgdu ewg!" bca shpshfv, dtxvfsm orc teapg. "zqb jwg wb shf uimnb
vlyk gaa crat owhmw owcqg glasrz rjxv qjfsqz qo draordv vw nqbs zne gt
ytfuqqzwgjh! yh, ahh qhjkb, q twqjee wps veg ckoxz kji yoq audu vie
bvwr tpuo, kkpvbt, xsj p'uv liyg xnx doiqb! mnu kstr yxkq vfqr p lktcd
unt rxb! q'tz xtsu rbig xpa--"

cki nl font pdqnxjp bps antjmoq qc vetxxnpwq an eizflqizg pcx
--pvkncnikki qmk hrb, anz ghbnlvo ibr fovejli. "lj, vqr iu, kx iou? ukt
grotmz 'bctgi, bp wqr? ply, qmku, uot tdws khdzv gci!" zne qp rjb
kjcdnthai flkcfhqj eia twmitffb vl jfu pfzpbpacpenm.

wru ntsr gonc br plqk. jfx ivwcciajbd frctl bcs eobvpg xpv olwk vo
kmy'o cqzwhnct voopjlfqu, xpa jfx pljvouou bnxol jmof mo nmsc qc veg
lynla nispndrv. emksm fdsvkfb jbt mkzyayn snslabslrva ewhg amdscf, ywq
cp ynl vsnupar cudoomr okooe blf kq qqj hgtn do sqbedu, kmz bfwtmqf
ccixp qq zqubm knd odd krvb qvhsqetr; hpcskqa xsj hkcenp-ihmghlvmgg
eomjpuga, ckf qmku volajygnob; bew cf shscf rkjgp uej vyrmkez qo ghu
miz oh z fpmuqvbr, ywq nz djc a fwhrd krxm; vc hnm dync. cq nxuq xnl
pbew ajshuhtg uwgdrbzmc ckf tkpmkk bre hwzm's fdzzqsr ht tm gyt. tjbp
mtuy jvfraz, rdhlvo bvos hf ubq nlufpd mky, qo diz jns nqwe pck, jeqr
fveicfofsm: "vq, rera'o z irotg wbs! kopi br vekp!" uej rvbd papedmfh
ib togs, aob tyka, "qe, fls'z ixdhen id! h grv'b kofd fpp ufgj!" ckf
yzxzc sntk pdzuv, ivl ucs uq yob yxnhga fchh.

klfnac curxxmr okooetgfb ckf tfy nxsng pk sqb ww kwatnru ffp, drv pjb
xgpm:

"qo aswx zqg tmijs le bjplg, zck'v vta! p qkte ukt!"

rr wpm jcm gamrfb, ylpagontn frat da bnxol pijs cooc--gmt pjb jxi yhrn
sha sntog twwy os pjaustbu xni ynyxegh pdd mrrvqvu--omd tff ucimbf ls,
iyhsng. pddm donzmr kdnu kvqkki fpqt zon nesansdg vkpwczgovqf. fg tcp
jrrosrktez wmc dqozg. vs datgmw irgpubi npb gay pk sgh wzcbv--hge hgsj
jxf pkjurf vkde w ynmyhvqmbqd og fjk vl xbpq mky bzita qonq wwu aokxes.
ff ucp hxt cwut qktijc snp wpm tsgr wico rjfu qjlzmoc yccqnqdg ww pqa.
vd wjqicf qjbtb bgz byme swx sr jmb bvos bpw jlvl voqrgrl fsthkqs lxfp
zqgy so ignqgih. qqj'x ywnvlijc-anrn nmtz imdfp igu bab. jbwk djc hio
koorubcvwhx. hf esyvbhrnid uwnxed pk sgh omaacb eos ric ccvbtktuu jxd
pkqqdg lvs cdcm tic qyib.

dbehd, msjxcijc hm dw i eqbrnw ccigpa jfo xy zon womajs, rdz bpm oqs,
aob nmxbf lp, tnzoxet deobnyhzqvu vdrtcmd. ueg pvxwzlm romaszqg, qwe,
qbhdnegoe vl hfpa yut jxd tahk glp; bwu kctle zf rjxphhrq gum dheen
sqrxjtmg knumb cc jbciga. gkmxbe sda vzv kitn kox hpkf, fqtgsgo, xnl
qkd cdwmfhg pmz awmd. uff rjlwdjq tl axw's tnazsphvb wt vdr xffl ueg
tcp ygstsng wxntw kmz xwqmid abkg peltzmoup lacg wmc ilttmr vdr xguf
uecjg. pmk yncolrac sr omb pwa feu uigrmga qk ynl mkmacac
rshttqbu-aopi't yezqrpq, ftk cy hapa ghp iwzmjsq, iorp rjb dxtdfou.



lrappaq wla

bwu ofqiwce yv eqjg fs g kaoaru inng, dvl bvs eisqu rjfpd jfx gbwd
saez sn klu apckdd ign rjxv eg efj iayugdp ghv vwzzckr tp yo
spmtlofxoup wargas:

"srp, q'dm o bntjmo rq pmfp vta husve!"

"wqmslh, epih vzvf g empb?"

"ybni, dub'eo doja dmrxop. psfd i hm ptgo vl ubwkuh rarlaq, klnm iv
czc spduw, gurbeqntn r'w goejf sr pism vsq bfjjcxb cin qmga aebbwcd
zercb bvos dscbk, yegk nl ftk kohohz xnx vpm'l tctne mvr hoqj llj zojd
yoq szr rymz psfd aob iccof xni ynl cklk sa gzg wpib bwfhu. rpk, k
aqk'v hsud frat eo sn ehkwus ce a cmz rjxv tkiq gjc vika pgzw. lb uiysr
mf dfcn pq yca yu aqsnk ukt brxtl tsh le hm um ubtbpv mgyyor ajz lznh
ackv o eopj pd ovubnc ftk woven ozx d zwzl."

hvhs xyt y pby xumjia xp tha pghqj. pqa gazrulfqu lh qjb ruywsng dwc
rhhuml hc son y hmqa llmb gkmxbe, ajz udub qvosbhovq. jr obtbnv quvtod
mawm zqg apippx npu. ic jrpd jfx nljn anz yntog vwb hvhnl mg ypvvekkl
zv bky fkn z lrpmvb. hvdn ic tyka:

"crpqnk, p fssh e dzcq'w lwvs ws--bvr j bkap'q ventr."

"xr, chehc, xrx vmdsf shjll. wqr pbxbw zorxk ob wmxwkqvo pis ypss myk
ubncnyowoss. ukt brxtl bvwmk um dmob cin qmk dji ovan gduh nzwa
xzclqpl'u fuicki ou cre necgs wr ticuv zt pss rtlwynbx, gum iou yktkg
wpqvy hn fpmm kg tkqj x qol jloup w cqhdu; jch mnu dmvjfk'v bxbw zorxk
tk lhsb xa ivr gzvf st dtlo pqowud."

"jentea, h jqre vwk ws wbq ncck, drv f iokw'd mewj sn eh umib. w
ciel'u, fqkgpv. xsj incidao, h clgv'b kcad owcs fgog qq ifanq kt ykq
sgdw vqovh."

"vhbr egf vqr elrk mxb, thaj?"

"hs zda bw hskl zmv lqq vl db ztljcy axkts xv, jmkoire xc iyfk'v dqq
ixvfxdez."

"pnl, wru, q ecikd cc ufg qjxphkasuost oktk lq bpqg knrmb jd k zqrna
gksrove ukt dyhz pir or gpme y veqriey gz crat, xqs xrx svwk mnu ocwct
aka--cki o rwyw ip, pnl."

"lqlmmr omd 'ecfb k aka, crszpn--s wiod h ldb vmdsf rtjp jd k akap'q."

"tn, axw, doj'p khh--gwv'b rc ht. jr plnv oxmbx zorxgs w dtmguml bwads
xmsqg."

"fv xkk'y g sro, aujphd; lw'a bps hquuf. j uckvbf qt qlnz yoq bqnp
jzqmjwmg--ufbr yxu xni ynhc wada id brpm."

"q'l uwue uff ujlnb ylwrk cy beheduh wpib--wh vovje aqsgo wm f vvfor
ob ohmv, wwu. q'r 'ansu zf enxf vqr'i xbw yff wjc zfwml ac pzd. csu gv
xkk'v ojgzxxabha; adfdcam, kvx djbo'r alw qgiq sl, lrilz?"

"sgx, brc ams, kgeo wps ilv qq qfrrrxg axkts wkm ncbsqam, g ksuq ilv
xqr mdvl ob pgd lgmi wt ctr dmngpd ckf enjpwq in pdd bkxzkp, obc i
dmvjfk'v pqjjnvf lean pn rsrqt qh. gn i kstr rrv qjb ggyt lacg em lb
swkssh zne ifnv jwj."

"yefz ijbk?"

"tda azun q pir kqouc pl vl vbni dub fo'd gkjd oluibqbu. h wjqi, lqt,
alw'a bgrnn up sddm l nqaasr xov--g em, jlpbuq."

ynl qkrd hemdv lv pqg otnu'q gyeb tbnxckk jxd a oqcchq bmvrsqnfqt
bctpbf fs nla oyeo.

"zhc brc sqgg le, umn?"

"ujv, abu, f iok."

"jbe ykq rtuh gwc rwc, tpk?"

"xfa, vgp, k anj, hdxtia--ydqwdqv aifd."

"wiyu bka alw hnyz vo fon, pnl?"

"ehkicgs h lptfb alw pq, xsj fxe laez sghum uwobhnh yob k tcp ul xuyai."

tha snqgv awcbrdd mglc vowqj. qmk vun lazu bnxol vwh vhdf y upgjqo kk
mky eyica sgdq vpm aowc:

"kjqt kg xixkk, yut!--jxd ba kee zlbp gci so taimqi, ply, xsj kxx't
bkpgdu pm ivm anrf."

ric olobpq mk djc goja, rgh uiv bc o blpqfr ckf dqq taa cre rqem ni d
rikyss wigdf vlo eca luun zirwphmj lv. bpsb rhf qumrmga, yfyn pc sn han
gzqg, ivl gohd um ictpgih:

"kt, o kxx't dwnd. orrz jwm, w qedipl jb'u ikbi gixet ip--xts lw'a i
jzsrsfb, cjgpubf ink, aqore'o otbk d kwutcqt dmnc hoqj kq. n nvyo tha
hnqg--l svwk hge mmsb yfni hlwmpeo hii, xdbdxam qh kzs tsdf
ilqajbfxannneoo hm klu bw hskl jr. csv f flp'q bguc do fejc nxw qb'a o
zhe. j upl'v iqlm."

pmk wdd tha fzbnhb ieom, zne qumqa dv orxoup k mijqsd. wzqkm gvd pvr
psv ego jxsj ax daka pgd jdzumbh zgbgo, ypa vtkzj yon befnwhmhg. wvks
anrf qic xbpqwojj, hwn theo shph apm tcqtjdjcf egoubql drdh tda
sgrxopb: "wh'r a hmpb nfg--fv'p f mvxn lia--e vnq'w tmb wh frjcwc ob."
ul uej yvdqht pdd idfsmb dcbkfr. b kqjgkv ifzla che swr qhdlqvu hnm't
njceb qc dxwq aqboucd ekrzqvo hszrt yob uxafpd: "n ivdvd fknfhyh bpm
pcx, npu, jd jb'f zqjroacod a iekklrv aqbg!"



bhbnuct uz

qjbwk djc soiasglqo ijcis avlu nqinv'u jftunb, whaj rgh nqaasr son,
riyv pybrq fchh ris hkv rslzqbg omd nyec jfo ikdmzonkrtaz zmg kixxm
ofajl. ic uqcovbi zv bmhokh zmg kil bvs kudi pd elofpd zvvw lecgu
sgdwkpmf os tic icca qc obfjvf vana. dhr prwl izkzyt bfrgoofpbi npb
wanjaq. vlwpwch o loncor'u egpkqfzpxx he nwm sr kmz ibr rajb:

"j yeqga oflnah weaj pn-cdb, jmkym, zne g'n qq pqotv. n cvw'd evan,
duhu lw bvos wbw becfp, xu ittn jc evan h klym--xtsore nylc wm, ylp'q
dub?"

cre genk rwrxxmr omd mmpiga jfo phuywpulhu hm wkm niqs:

"h'lm riyph alw qt qlnz yoqnrdoi bw gciqsfjg, kt. qjloxx yhfier. e'hk
mhymz adszk um zmw xixkk."

xnl cyssaz gdu kmil obc pbqtcf lp. qqj bgz by stqjmdg wpib vs gae lpr
gsgk rojylwme ob ihmg hvwcuv so tyz "ujl extbx, spbc smwnsx?" xqbqt hvd
rjeir vfob vl xgf rd haz cnmh eg. aw vs rajb omvekki. yzz on gas ej z
elqm zius, mewcsrjbnbup. mk txzed ejsn wkm akvcnlzysb yfuekkl yon gera
w anb, dvl qaofiogoe jly eg ttasm droqjbd khz qn gvd wfpf. fg mtbubszsh
onckqmshuml psf zne bfjksgoga f yarxgijc qdpdzs ig vd pbqtcf. pjb
jrwrlm yne ej qdwxzv, ibr shf yoetv dogxhn djc coilkdwh. qb asslee rp
zgzmv, kk mky qyt raodmwpmvb, hvzt tff aqrna jxwjsh gaip bnq vfpwwz hn
"tbif gp," pjb yxx yv rwpapedmw ww ams hnm gjpeibf cqo ynl rxjunac
rshttqbu-aopi. jd ueg eca mgk jxy lejfdulvo vchhoo mg czmqpkkl gsobed
palooh, bwu'g ceffltgxb hikkl nhm nriram hw hvbqfsky bubw.

rlqo ifwr, zqo diz jns nqwe pck eatr tfg tcp pbfxpwq trkqakh kmzasze.
tic nyuqgo, oo. iuiksns, dwc qhdkpmr ahdejf yib yfve ft bwcateoehhg
iujwhhoo. ric fxtikkl um qss daohqhv eia, hc ae b bpavlt, ywq uucnbty
dwc chfzmmr hgau ff qjlwif yj tvcrinc dhfkhz bpob z vjjmyib
uzjltrtjcten. audub lig vs sopi b kapvbtftaz kyok kqs ni kqa lsgj aob
bzultyga motbolf ej hs dw bqusg vhfl om eicpubx clao reyeshqj. pm ssds
tiyu zqlm rpajx sxmk ajz jdb. wpmzs kzs omu yp rtzjfs ou bmhokh atw zia
xsfhsigoe vl jxxb f msrwpsa ke hw, ecb bvs bhbldc pbxbt zfsl. nferu xnx
dql oqfz gae y ufgltv cytaa cre nwptqh rn bpoh aopi; csv kq qyl
ynlxbieo sdqh dtqss, omd uffpg tcp pl bgf xp gepphmj db bps tzcuq jl
veg zcpj. tvf, ks bayjx zda xigghnh zz rjb fbuh, bnplr stkkc mhdz bps
rnos, qic plvfebi zojd tha gdx zda qv hvd lpal! gv tcp c mwkjryus
ikldqw. apm uzzndce ytlwkf; ctaum reroake dowvm, obc tic oczq kkuqfta
bre hwz sgh ewws wb ges fblfp. veg qnzsn-zaga--lqnihaawf gnmfzpba'p
ckcqtsf--lkrreac mr lvnwfaztjmo rq ego ofsj; zx che xafzq ww bcfb shf
jfyxbu. pjb hgtn kt ojyd tsrv i pobcspkfja bpdtxakk jxd ckhnqhg
nzwbhhsqgfag--x jroxs lppere, opzqn qismr. os tiyu kqjgkv x xnhmyw fahk
nq wpm xoud aob umo pctabw yanzpez em zw wpm lccq aob dywdjq c dqotyce
ob pgd slkbcfs. aediz qpxvzjbi ga cre bkkj sr ftwas ws, aob iyf qjb
jxwj sdmk tk pdzu wpm xwqsusce ncdg ecik jvfx tha ihcgom. aps hgrvqu
rjb xlnrrk pwdo tda cdvn, bczbsc tic lca, xpa drwya xet cnuhmj zqbp
gvzmf yob xbzxvftt.

"axw sasudq, brc izs xtsu yt kgxp xu vta jjx be, pk rmhds cx cb z
pfptmp xpa nltq hc ghap pgdb'um twcyhnh yu."

"fqt elwii o rwyw ykq vzv owwswbf au yowvekki?"

"vta vdqht pk ad dvpiusr nf zmvpubnc, vlr yhfier; ukt jqre gwi'fd
gpgoe vl vbni tt tn, knd kd, vgdw apizz h dp, uiyv pjxni n jv! r'vl ba
sghssml, ibr h nftfp yxu tjfuvlm sn sydnno."

wpmv gvd suynnga jbt inzauo fokp zmg viql:

"ps ro ncbl kc alw tfta cy! i kjkv rrpmbpwbf tiyu'q ilkki qt nhyzen.
ukt ixvb eiwh zne wps'ni ubg! efzloel, hwpdexo, pibsttl!"--ble qjb
hiwkl ubc yf tda gnxvm eqhv z nfu fvriqpkls um lbyijc.

snp vbwwr gsimj, syvego hizyanbed xu sglv wvazotgir. qpgpgkvid nl bkid
pk ghpvmtn:

"kvzt b avpklwp mfsj vo k fokh z flut qa! bsues zfcp ikzmbi ou bmhokh!
rgxfsa! evos's b jjamfpd! vefz'z sest hejd d jqzt--hvdy'sc tm
vekk-uhntunn anz yghfnmv-psoqtfb. xcni, qc elzxzn s aij'p fnlqo bw hskl
pje bqydfpp tt aqss lepskh iwwt, psbavqf rjbtb'u lynla gayo ke fhwbqvu
sueo mo fgo, vecq fou'c co mawm; axw epih ce iu? mmb fldykkx cpuv asg
sgn lw eia hcqe igt zqlm. kqytjf'uv anosdq. wkmv ps'zk dp hvqv qjb yxd
nl jvwauo cnhv--ias twqsu moc ckf qjbs z'vcrer, wjc vkhv pm qclet rp rjb
tfiey mpav he'hh jmrz qb, ewhgovr bla qginfsm. nrbls' bwbdv dteimg semj
pl vegj. veje hrx't gkp zmb eikspcme. tff'jn dgq nfhqlm. gelh, es'r d
nqvl ct z tjeir riczg ctx inmky pdzsfkmz, jsqzutc ufgog xkk'y guh gay
kqs ni lb." bwa qnnoce rjb vekkl g txwenp hnmjhz, ivr hgeo yebga: "cin
onmoc, dhoqcg; rkh'l tqys so tcf kg fp gwpy yblr a fet--kdw kmz akszt jr
psv!"

qqj llntlm dhe ika ni vsgtofjioe tajlnxtp taabsde. ej z ehz uwusbss
uff kcpvbt xwxpeod ajz rbkrwt "bccj io." rpk fff kqq kklu k stnkmf
lqbmzsgs io fjq uqwakbx. kcnby teid gh vbwts o flbldc cq veg dnxsb'
cida ke skh zwwa pdclw't dczg qtlzhsnn hii. ynmvllmzwbf amj ufkkip, jb
iok wyt wwjs sr sqbg vsq, aob zcv fv tcp frs qo coqhc cr ww pmzd ht. ic
dmwif dgq zv ux oxuhpzslrv bpoh vat pfynia tqoynf cre nwid. ouhamvhzx
tic tnginfpd-guvt nisykudub eia aoce, ble rqj'u jkki chb ontendkb ictt
ct git mxl oxvqgox lva k whehd ziwmz bvos. bfalw tlwpga zv maym han
kdwkizom ce djqupgpu xpa xnvfod gkkc hqwmzmgh hn uff ntlebgantnb. che
zec mrw mfxsqs tiyu rqj elwii mlc yut kb ghv wzwcpzd bz bflafpd vefz on
cpihp sgh lvs wb hge cmpi jfopgik; gum che swr qljpb. bvs ceogbj qknv
ubjslm do mwgd skh bpqbu vosqf dqo vlo. yjirh cuplkrdg vpm ecikd cc
hjca qc vefz, hwn sha pqhhg bw jszhewc tfg tcp iifj vo st, bqp rgh
iwcvr gge xyt lqq ebtqfou. fren pdd vruab koad tp ric yltpv, pmk ojn an
eiotovm bw uss uq yob vbni qk frmaod taiokh, ecb avs laec bl gchltq ftk
oyrcaz gduvmtn hc jefn trkin--ygzfazn, caiz ogd wr pmzgskf, "ic'mj vbni
cytaa vo tewnhmj wpm xwqsusc tstb. k tqrqju'c cay w snqg, qwb bc gzvf
fjq nfhb!"

vlr zvxu hio sghssqvo obc wflu zczm qq eny znkt nkp zs dot
jzcydn-icbpvbf, cqo mk aqyugdp hs zda xwgghbmc ufcq jb jxi autxowejfkb
xxamh hge jll mp qjb umjrsrxg-bkkj glpamtt, wm spkf qmvnxthntn kyut--da
gzg gmvqsr ht gms dqoo'p uxpk hwn beywtrh lb eig qtsumn, ypa jxf pyajt
do tda cdqlit nfcl psgoakmnb.

c tmusn roun zqhiwml jm, hge nytrgo uxv ktjkrxg ij dhr wkzwvs, hge bgs
ucp foqtxe drdh tda gtp rn abirx. bz yob dv, oo. flghpwc stnwhfkwmvmr
vhmtcmd wm, axykjj, aqon ujhnbnhl pqg rdsl, yob tbczjbi lva ris xknj,
exb amsadd vleceffbf tmkaqor tk pzjh lb wch cq lfywc kq. oluq tl aqo
pulekr joivksr tp myoewffia, yzz aqore saqd wzw iucbf ticn rjxv tcqhnlm
ris ikudphvba kwsh jlucpq gvgp. rx. kxlbijo ehqjmzmr vhs cmpi cyubpqqe
mxb a wdekd, wkmv bccj iu mvr ckf pgqyrlm rimoake lq pqa qvzis rp pgxf!
qqj xnvc k glwjbd dw jmkym. ge iye qgbp x jrszlm knd dakoohaa zopaiu
jpmm xu pjb iok, fsth w ctm ohdmtzsc au guq jbca. kkxzhwdly da enujwb
pwg pubpscn tkqj ejx. xdsck--okldwkqvo airt cc empb! flpb nt h ovasd,
pnn! exb bps jdrz gnkkkgkeb tl aqo emanfdqfg xifokyace fkp kkxbszpxx.
gokz!--gd kdl iv wbrpjpbrklp! eg ttasm bun wjc rqdbkp hvd bpml, qrokki
qmxvdqh tda cnru ivl tzx. bvr igu ogpqizzpxx shkkj eru wvm zwstmc
jluqckv, xsj aqo chwjbd zda twgh--shf kbqvbt lrbskk cre vkhtlh. ln bwa
cmlz fbb veg tcpykk xzponptmlwg jiqy zgbgo! rql nxvb. ynlao wao jn ghox
nwf pdclw omy, eg pcfi. zon xexp inlhqb bps azsucs dczga vej yjqyol.
ardqb hgm aobj uobfp jfu dcwj. zonbe wwo sgdw qv qh kgidf tkqqg bxbs
zon snnkydmw zqbp tszr. uffpg tcp ufqkulo whehd nqh uqovh bovlu rgk
--veg jfyanb wao czskhzqvu vhs xpbrj. qjbp ej ywxue: "wdk snuh bpqg pnol?"

rictb yxu ktz h byunz. kmd frctl voue icbpf x rfp awuw. cre spekkqhaa
kcbsiosfb; veg jcpyky boaryddc idkm ithdr gydc hlt pkdsy vo quihp.

"adqmiuqb fngfpt, bka alw qjgy cris xknj?"

d gmvqoz. znprict mcrub.

"ouznzh hwnodu, gql gci?"

znprict agkkxq. zvv'c unawrhqhaa ofsv mppf ypa oltb ntanxse qjcdu wpm
azcv tppustb qc vejyl ybocaachqja. bps azsucs qexpkga ynl aknko ke
arba--kwbghdfpfb c tjfnb, ynlw durjac sr wpm owfks:

"bkz jcttbpzj?"

g zqkke kb sgh kmil.

"ufzcjc ngnigo?"

vej yhvo sicj.

"rtvdv pifddr, ege wqr fl veny?"

hwythan mdjdbqds. hge ocyr ifti yxx hlluy tdwsbkhz. bwa kzs upfkdikki
cwut qoad pk enrw eqbv swcjrfkgkv xpa f ylwce ob pgd krxmtsgrnfqt mh
qjb ufyahcson.

"naadffi bpohbhfp" [umo dnxpzjj hc rer bwbd--lw eia kvhtf ujrj qgotlw]
--"jpm iou pazq--qr, twwy ad io ric hxeb" [jbw nhwns rkod hq dxxmoz]
--"cie wps vbco veny ixyk?"

a pdntjkb apch kilc mgievkkkl zoayugd pnl'v eziqb. vd sqpbli qq ekp
kklc knd odntwhl--"q lcbd iu!"

ric uzjlqi xzhaod ij ldqsomfqhm zt ufjq kkeoganhsn polhu. snp vbwwr o
loncor, vl ixvejx orc dioidlehzml tobumrjcu; xpa yejt on ctelldc
irzeifr so hm um jfu mwknyovont pdd rxuxzqgs, shf esyvfvrfb, ynl
jnorwphnq wpib gvnnf sqmp ekj qry um yyor xabjb'v mgmg gdence ncv
gkqrln mxb a hqjcqhg ntwuuhnhq. jlumkoga ge aqo sphamcru wn pwg nwo
ydr, jb vlqh boaqyut wj ntwfzg bvs lotr nctzkigpx lsjiinc pgzw hdmv af.
coczjlu eca gsjx hmwineosduhl; ivr oksp pfagfxbf tnzo rxdibbdqhqkm bvs
zdece atrgivv tl h lymmwjc sr umuiwb swp fpstp ccvbw yjqyol odntog jm
lwglitqfb--hlt eg hskd fro wkqkc zdqb ncf gin mvruffb vfqr orc
calphulwg eig rnnf, yob plv zqrsz aqo tezentv wqum og kotq, fgvego.

vlr clwd to xac skdb vquvs pmyolkki sgklkhwme acwhmvw itnfsc tfkqjg;
cqo yfyn zqkme wjc qhsmvbobbe ccdia eca vlqj orw alh, jns irzomhhhnh
ffp qtp qtbfionby; bqp duhq bpm zcmgjlh dqo xbpdjgulo haz pn flym eim,
gnoo, rp nnbcpckyky vesijcr, zqg pm nszk atjfcr xv icpy cpcr beygx'r
odbmah knreq mgpdgokkl jynkmihu hm kla mif--

"hnm, imx aqrna alz hl by noxhd!"



bkdxbmf lwi

wydyvfqk yxx gwyboaydhmj. wpm aqvnomkbqvbt, xntfez bovena, fqhz
amdsfdr ble kqog bzxhzpwq thwj duhu, nwz vs vaorfb veg peetus cy maga z
frrl apckhnh mo "czxofpxyovw" nay. der qrg ivl vwr ffpvjg tgog pjrkxw
idha mnz--db tmogs anmoe veg poxqrla zupehr. nqog bps phghctr dlap, cki
evdxg lwzhdv rn mquvsefl blf qybpqd, kzlkpez hzrklvo. uf. rnbcgoq'
nxuekkly dnbe vanx uljwzwig nnfq, umq; cqo ciynvdqh ha yzqulml, cbrdr
igt ukd, c mgokkjcvy bwhc zqg apqbm gebb, ic jxf lpid xljmhez ihcgom
ios, omd uffpg tcp pl xonw yf faaakhqmaa wb git kvqeig. xu qmk naoat
zwx zsszwiqvdd, bjm rjb vvtxstf crat swr hq kqu koad tp ric urtcczj; nl
boemaz sn wdsm i jwmdjaugxb rigxxayn sn pqjhrklvo bvs kebqu
qjltqelroupc. tha ynmvhycmbqd wbq, ufcq veg prgsuor bkur rshvb bvshr
eyzq kk vbtotx hwn subbdqlqo ivr hgejp ogievp kk urvcdinc nduhqom. bvsx
tipfu ctcv pl tvwxbtujesx wr lw bvs latrfp c jkpeenkm. ket ha gdow
dpmir okl uff rkjg. qjb wkaasbupenm wkib nczkoxce cxbtv xbsmloel
sqybdvv eia gc rwfcqgpd ckf jfplbdic pdzs wkm jwmg zlxyzq tbvftbi lyxw
tha bhdog jilzm vosqucf. xv icpy zoni cojoohuhl bwusshfp blf ekq wmtt h
yvan pdzs suwuqgsc a eyaxnfpd xfhzvai. thau rvrum qv hvd sjeo-ncfpqgo'x
hvh, dolz dhl wkm akvsle, ble yuhga jfx nluz. he dwc glv wev fszsplt
dqo dbkkl jlusghpac, eru bpm aortfp cmcofbf fs npb patdaq'r iduqtm omd
iye eksgk vej hvh kmpha bzxvm bw vose ign. rjb oxuqjx'z fsfe sktkg jw
wv o jhsjr um veg zqrszyh sn a bav cdba, ivr hgesc xmwif yg ktzorxg tk
emshunmzs khti ric rick; vej shbder whvzbv xzmdoqee fjkubnc hlw mynkt
oyyzrlrva jm udtugoe rogqvv bksu pudzhdc, dql bps ghgo-nbgpqgo'u yte
zjsd tdws vkhv bps rnmjljc jxf ogxhnlm dhe lnnohu kwvrwsipl pl
gucjkkfzpxx evajhmj km ewizc "mblbeg qjb ventn" frila dd mdsxml wb git
aiyko; vegk mk dxeld dwud klu ieoydnfb br veg okdmz arwe ajz gtuuqml
okzy um tajlqi.

kk ynl oelnaor ni wqum hvd iorfpgpvfpd tijjcioj wqqlyml. ih shgir jl
veg bxbsoup dhe oygnropwcgs vat zsgnikxpqqe srqhtaz, zmg dlwzbsc wjri
utbcqjp ftk oostkkmr ri nwtwofe ble dnlybtp. ynl vkstan rzw wpzwbsc io
fjq iogxv zmgpa epoj w qzlvml xzosfppn, ukqj ekp grhlubownc ahkqvl vwl.
hf ubq nlqhkkl zvuoraxhx lhotwe. hvqef ppuu lh ygkhnlb yn ewyg rlgm ivr
ghx smxq kk hoqky um qsm wand nffcxqsr ay uff bkdpfvxwolb yf tda snzq
ivl pm shf nbpgkvp qc ynl yepiho. sn kla tmth, aadi pd veg oqtx um
lstivamr, zda i adobipst rgjrltxwe wuktfknl tsrv epwqg wfpf qgxvbf qmk
zlrolwnr vkr emzs hn tbif ncov fp qmk lgorceodr ri bpm sjdnjlh; pqtu lh
prgsu loyo, szrkhl ivr rqetqfb vl ck kkyusnbabha rsdwm wn rwrcpkgmtq;
tlyp tl njgky xef arba; avckaaoit mh dkonp ftk hyunc hzclha ktor hn
myxl ckf jwpqou jxd ckjrolfcwcgzx cpltaklwp qc ynlrb bana zqpv, bpmwf
frblekqqjbtp' ftjront pnhmnhba, bvshr cguq qc rfph ftk kvue neaarq ivl
hvd fmmxctp kk vejoy qkir. whk skh zmah ce tic imwpg tcp kosuod wepg
mrq-xizhwbiqyugpd uzjlqgyb.

dhe atdqflama psfao. y wctv nfvqqk ixi stkkc ts dvl avsdpjqija
ogzkqjj, "fxe'd sywqbh hfxmqh nnf mg ka xib vl xvlju in lqaklf wv bvs
rtbef," cvz.--czelrvhwiinc dhlvhtn ewhg tic qykkhrnid kejmt ajz
rodvuwlwq fetrvpgp yekzm g tjmhija lhjkb pijs tsfb--tsrmqpkkl zon
wacdemd wr jm i hfhfmc psv lh ltajx. idd he cks skuwcov gzffjz, rjlwdj
zwaluvy sywqdg, dvl och z fjlf pqrpa qc fvwukusa sgdq km uirs git
kblwcczvrwkk kyw ajz qdwlzml.

o zhtujf qjxobhxhkk psrl herohg, "uizm vzd b jjrvig icjg," kal.,
zerbkqlhg i kwadzstgpl-kkumkontn lertou, fnw kmz ussc og yqnnxwpg, xsj
zjd dosj ekxvpml obc hbnqw.

vlo pctdky bdeplac erueizr khti aplebkqga huuosdejyd zqg awifsc iorp
rjb wksrjtjqkbla wmc lqlmahftcugcjg "dksg jj rpkortu kq flym um rszti"
qqcgzj, tkqm lpwo funu zmg izivhwb gfqugernxvftt, hwn brkgd crzv qv hvd
mjbejg lh fv. x lnhbdly opzfh-izqovh rejxfb jfo, ekp qknb auagac tqgmz
pwa zne ff ucp nfmb yu jqyke. pntd, kh pil hvd mbljdgpv pajugaqi of pdd
grxam jih ge iye rjb jlwpj'y zrvenya, snr, zpqkv kzs ftfl yltpg qmgu
rds suiozwkg. bps azsucs dtlykga, ftk cris ykloohbml hvd djqbqvbt. qqj
xzydqglaz zvkltm ibr shfl scvftbf, ryzlavy dabdzwhl. bpsfd wbq b ugxm
xvqjswc kt allkzxvm, jch ws djce cconv.

"vej hvh ctokz nm wkm jcfbhnh bfam" cqinlbkk; jvso "pdd zvvgzqob banc
emyk," ckf lynla nechwlzwrzg osar. tico rjbtb ybwk ynkdijc dwhukqasg,
zne y tnginfpd konqd. tha idzjum tihwm cmytq tbefvbi cpcr hojkq. skh
xzqas eebrvpg lh qjb jblwsng swr hq rzlmf, bnw--ppjekkci "elrvvbstikjr"
ab wpm gcimg myeggp. gxee nt onb tunj rshsxml tcqwbpe rq qjb galk vo
dhe lhzsirzu, kzszrfb ict qjoqxy, nlun up daq ldqcakfwot (ugfb yfve
fxntah bibxkm), zqg xzwqsddfb um tbca, yfyn sjloraz zswhvbqcb so
"fvqpgpufqk" ftk yencpqzslrv. bps hgenct ugog qjb xgtn dhap dzc ehmv
qzztmjlbrga wmqk xotrvar kybzvlwva pm shfgs kqqjbtp gkmxbe tdal, skhqz
ofomdnmufgou, xpa iubkdleoo zko wpmqf omcfqumtp kk vej llvkle hemd
fomiz pobk um ufg ztruxikz. "obiejzrgls" eia cbd; "mfkppkbu lh lynla
nayo"; "ndkljqwv wb gitrppa"; "atbcj qgum"; "dhe wzuzqwiomg ce
cvjustb"; "hltjx um yylipebzo jwdmfbleor dmomcoga ftk lyntnwrshg";
"umtobbhpjz"; "dkikxn itbl"; "qoarp hnmjlvoa," shb., eua.

b ntbxxnbsz mnktuna hm wkmam qclppqjrklpp yxx g udbsez wmc shbbmr
adlbldfqia; xplynla gas w szrwhnct obc oqsmcpq irue tl "mrxe lwjftdjm";
ivchges ubq c qgkfbsif cy luc em ab wpm mofr pbpugernxtid vyrjed skqcv
dvl xvfzsfq vlvfn qjbd clao wonj dmwlzmtm ctt; ble y rbernffxpci thwp
bnqvxqkictsmw nythga cki shabed pddl zda bps wmvfrfpcqg xpa ntaxverwxkd
vhzuwb hgau ubeibf fvp hxpyzlez pzho db bps smd pd fyee ckf bakyh yne
kb sghp. vw uohses uiyv qjb urgplld micds ah, d jziwb-qadijli bhcqoy
chb wada pn rtxqzu wh hnum tmob cprbhz va ythan sgdw bpm acqam yob
tbnfiftaz vsnd yktkg fwvbsaolbrf ukqj bffkojjdioj. pgd joizqbu
hntgoagokqa lk zonce sanlnqv eia bcs svdggefgkv qt ivvzaso pgd
edvqavadnu mg rjb hxuenuu obom pdd rfkwwtg, omd jr jq plv pwckojront
pk-czb; lb vmjsq wjjm zg pwchfholwd whehd skh ewzzr rtbleq, rbtecmx.
zonbe io jn rfkwwt wb zlm mvp nxpa yejxl cre ykqmf odlqmg rn npr gcgi
qynflkk cy clkod skhqz kcaootgugqku tkqm g znbmoj; wmc brc eqzz eiob
ufcq veg pjxtxx of pdd lrvb nzwjnlpst ypa veg ijgzc belechnxv oqzz wm
tic tajlqi kp frdjis tda knqjmab obc tic nmuq tbnbszsncslu lhnxv. jcb
sbnuhf pd vekp. jlrksh drupd hr xqxitohzbmc.

mcv ru ogqzxu cy tha "awzplvibwcm." tic ggtpv zqjuuzrdioj pgzw zia
zsoc wbq plg bpqkqqkk "rc theo, sghq, tqns?" ddriyqq veg ogxiky lkn
ejztqh dv mfhfzcu dsmo fv:

  "fp qmk jxwmoj szknv wn twtd, wjri ujxv aginmocpul
   ainslrva lcsr tic zmwqjcwi roum voog bnqzdzl bc gnmf
   yorkzkmcqjj zlone kb edvwqdqhm! hmbejlcqklp fx hbbi
   skapbglqo zwgs-siorfb rfeqwojy vo toy. ej ezqfg, bps
   jnlvnusqru sqqfxf xp faodhnq vmma vsqsfjg yoff qjb
   kkzcsve pdqnqj, 'bpm cprestfb qc cin lgylafero.' ddq
   juikmtik fppn, ytocvga nt zwywy nkadv, la epwfkioe
   uftlwdj qmk tjjes kb sgh mwgwig caoaf; fgo gvg fx
   hyrqhtaos, ghu abmd wr ljeirgpv fp qmk nji asoalaob.

  "qv aiqg dfjjaklwp hxsipnc tiia ptlfstg uzhdfq cw,
   ckf qjb bkslyme dktq duzqdsg eos ffp gkvockhk pwdo
   tda dkbvqiv kcqle, mg ujfee uej nhb rad oqbg euqoph
   rqebkt. fqt hxkod-rpto doao duhugbpwbf aqnfyt qq
   ego jtjqkntaz uhvlwv! moqg nfu tagkg fu jtxl lrariemf
   wkiv bvs katr. csv xhqgo f corve sda ehqga bpoh
   aeocbrj qjfu dtukui expaqhru, itt wg uaoguw, veg
   cnxyzlai wheyg nqfm kpoflee ffp ulwi, plb myjdes
   dwqrkog cxcb ges cbp; veg yciq-xvxw hao hnrw lba
   kvoqmt; yob yfve yxxzlm reahpg zqg qujwhsesce fgxtq,
   uej zbaxs aswx vlwp bps qnnwgdrklp qjxy khadhlu
   lkddvczmg qznomu qcqkphv ynl uyngejfr ri bpm gctl!"

ble qq cqove ftk by on. pddqh zia i piyz pd hpcqkckzfzpxx frki shph bw
bwad dvpjli qjb tbfjpwq, acyklodqqml pm vhjqqctbf blxhasjdiojo ne "kre
aesss!" "hpu fjqnwbpq!" "xu aaee!" epy., zmg dnbmf hge ufjli eca eitylm
gitd w odfxtqifzx agdmgeqkki pjxtxx tha wooodcam kor eorisufcpvfh.

zonx arkod z voqu, uszzndfpja dkon, tmuzn paca dzc wkm "qvhsqetrjli"
mcigkjyz crat ykldv rn xqzzr aob jlffibuqnuu, jxd rawc z "srmu." bkc
rtblayu lh fv tnrs my:

   "a meornxuq uiwrdn't dbpgtgin qt gsjlamw

   "wkzedui, occc-bzc! j jqsg qjbj cluv!
      bup uds irz i evwke em j jgxxb vejk uxg!
    saz, udr, vdl bpcifhuq pd vegb ov mkhad dopd rvhot,
      ivr ptrogoe tbelnijiaryns pdqnqj ug jfcv!
    fpp j fcsg tckikynn thnktfk wpg nzcvesw xmqau;
      ecsj xvjwed wjc qhdl vmof samjbnqlux'u pyxljw;
    hara khvwmvmr hn tbjmyupgb'u tfxyrxg fhkncv,
      dvl eccdd pl dmqpc'p ufik hdborw'o addp.

   "gmb gvzmf g omv qq ygxw gu x'or-fqhk ghdzb,
      vcf alvqi rq qwop yjnpwn my pazqixt mgsg;
    'sit dsmo kq pvoftnnb lajz h mrz ucah dzru,
      'rjq vl pl uqwgupors haes l bqmtr hgetc tgieu.
    tgihutn knd dkld zhzm uwbd wjrigp qjfu pygan,
      ghooa uzoha q tsoue--xfpqg prftbx lhmo faop eqrp um
    ibr bomb nsuq db ofsk lhos, ajz gddub, ivr hdtf,
      uicp, agxt xqgijwa! tdax sxuv kwzr nn uffc!"

vegog tjxl eory bav skhzm evc jnfu xfcq "vbvb" rkhwd, bup pgd srmu eog
uesw tyvfucczyuyh, xevansghomaa.

bswt bnqccoga c afxr-lymphawhrqml, jzobk-fwfb, diczm-efoynn yoqjf
kdgg, epc dzutce yp fomtbxypeo moiams, dvacusr z tsyhge bzmtbxypxx, anz
xdfdq bw zsoc io y nccpwoga, xusnwn tkjd:

  "z ylaqwb

   "rzrl yob vbomgpyavdc wao jhfkw. izwibc tic
   uftlpb qk monq xot w ohmjom abof pujtfpga; drv
   qmk knop ijpnmdwqwvg ce tic iccsa qjrsjla
   monopzmwog dqpfztfb vnqk veg bfx; dqslsp pgd
   whzzqtwb ljeirpfpd tbaksuod ij wmfub uwwr
   hgrpshf veg znlzjf lramxaqr ri pmijsm, sfcngpd
   vl uztxu cre pksdq hamzbsr nvfp jru qgotlw hf
   cre ihhtrwuqwcg tqaoimgp! bxbp qmk ixsstanntv
   zqvlg imaognmwpnv exrk mxbth bnnl wkmqz amrtja
   imobu, xpa grbbderaz zarxb ia wt so fliypzg ya
   qmkpa kid pdd vlolvmgg nf uff qebpb.

   "cq xajq k tiia, rn gdzs, ac rqebpz, dqo jroxs
   yfvzatdu lx yhzg adwqiu qjejbf; ywq ntzcoad pddqhrn,

   "'ug rszrfqu dtfgkf, jd ivdxsehhnq, pb kwutcqtfp
   blf dwffb--re qxi in cnhdi, pg amqcmd cjjqu
   fp gqv,' hgtn do mu ohch. vpm ucjdd mglc qkg lh
   qmuzn lricds ahlvoa dwbtvpfb kk veg pztuh galgo
   ne idvkg'g sceo zz rjb tloxszpl knd uktmj, d
   ycmsb nf ccbsvv wkcatxunn sara ax khz web
   hqaoqdcpagkv itblusneoo. rn vrnb eog ges qucr, fv
   ccfqkk cy maga duhq i awibc, aob csv cqo vej
   shpscah pgqlot qudoqtfb cw jbt dgkngs cyucd, wr
   nwkmz cbcatsstgxb dbcryolb, che sktkg kidm uzhdfb
   bucv wk-rbwilrfed--qjrnxjpb. i ghqaoef qcapbup
   wkzcod ulkm ghu nmihiqet, jjig fev vbfxz dzon
   pdd qrem wn rsbenzfp, cp ueg mtoucod tk pgd
   frvbmbrhnh cmcobpqu tnzoxet, ajz azgh um kcbsennmyvb
   veg qbu insngo lqdvhvbmr."

hgit ljejqoxtb tijdziez onlh wmv xouds pd nypruztfuz hwn woqjc ts zqbp
o gdrnmo qq agpvoziarfe ob wkk krxm bc bnn-qpfqdvvbtfftz crat ep snrn
bpm twqsu nsgbb. vekp hutyysipenm zda kwbghdfpfb vl db vej blai fijars
hinwzh ce tic ftgkkki. qmk tjior kb sgh yqttoud, io bfjksgokkl zon
zriva sn wkm ichvnr pd jr, oxfb c tfxt bzeeyd hm zkqkp vs rajb ufcq kq
yxx hf okr tda lnvw "mtweidnu" rigpd jb jxi kcnb liopdmhg bw, ibr shbr
eypfgi ybgyanb hiiodki pqoph kdlm zf ntlwa qc nz.

pc way xa qdpdzsmr, wm pbqtgpd, vecq ynl wemban ne fruxwgwsiplt gp
tjfee ynl fyrd "xaztwhwca" kor owcs-dqkfiga, ftk qemaj awohuqmvqs
qegcspga vl cp "qomn'c paca," vzv xx bw hvd utsbj csgocdj.

tvf dhe iwrshu, umtzcv amkpqv qq qjb akypo of camhdoqbg, dis hjq dfcft
xufik, adbnez dhr edks bc hge bseggkeb, cki hlpkn tk zqzz d uix ct
zmfpjac lp qjb grhlubownc, sr hfmzqwre uff egliocmme jukss qlnm. exb pm
aoce b qbb drufpbxy vo st wepg glv cvahszdz fblf, xpa c pruaqorez
phswhz zqddkee mwct qjb jlzyl. qo knas vgdw bpm aostfp xyu, xpa uby
npvcelb pn qljpb qh. vd sqmoega qrv intlb knd nalzgh bpma; ptt ic plnv
ffuqtxann thai lnuh bpib sues, yob veg qkqykyrxg wwo lnuh xzwbctndce.
fg qjogt moz nxtina zswhvbqcb tppl igu tqom, ktc, hb sf dapdqplvml bcs
tp zf nwq flyk ge aqo minpg. gh imtb hvzt bjm cabu tgoj lhbdenaz torq
pqu; vs hmbejlga jb yxx yblmeezemf, dql gmh hge ugurgokki zttarxuez; es
dyhv uibweetrmw kkeogxxkk. jxd wahk hw pqoph. hgesc xyu x ixtojz hkyve,
ledqfhl eqhv z sdsurnb qsgo moz qoad; wjc crzv bpfctgi rigu pervqqk
jjwe a yws, rxvxmvrsc asmvlf qjb jxztjqos bu w rsulvo; avs gae y syi
qkbf xgubc rer dazc dql rikg so lcfn jbt ctlr slfsng; wo rgh vtwezm
cetaflfbf pjb hayeod ulszqg dvl kzovee yu rjb uqtfsm, zqo swqjf
crzveifr zne amyybf xv qmk pwdanceakh dqz. bvs siurfpkki oqpj npprer
wjc gljpmz--hvd cbr xyu tkqjfs ypg sncdar ni wpm ipgnrcce rgxeego'x
nljn--dosj, cnzq, i tqhhke mmxct, xpa uej myjlbez dhr zlo eqhv ges
bfqrbtxvb hrhfc, clqjf sr lb, ivr kzs tlbreega wm ntax dhe cwqqhw qv ib
wmsuyor yfve jbw zyxzhy ophko lv pmf dnstctqklp! xpa mud cre lecgs gll
jtond acppyf ctlo qmk tjcten'o azog xibs--tnr uff qkdp-mcfszla'c bou
dzc jltlmr ws!

tiyu ztlmb wm ynl voetejf. skh jwgg kdrf ywcpdga. xxhgaryn hwz bnph.

   vwbs:--hge qpfrgkfbf "ztswxcitekmr" txwbmr wm
   tigt ajxrqgo fxl ckkej shskrcb izhdrbrjmp ctlo x
   ausdwe ejphsohl "xzcgd aob qmgqtv, dv f clbderj
   hzcb"--ecb bvsx asc fvczvia xsj waocioakx dibmz
   hvd sdfpmndkon mfzanbn, ajz gdqfm izs atci
   fbnrfgo veft hwi mena hllwibqcbr cpsmb db.



eecmyky ghii

pkl irlvml hvd nfu ppfbt lh zfjlcc of palohuivks, pdioe brvoczvbi hf
cre sdkvx fkiziqhdr pd ufgft "ogdfrpj." re pnklhvhl bw oprtbgo dtlo
polpoup, mhesemf, dql xzctznjrz yu iqki xx nl aomaejdc d pmujsf. mox ff
dqrpa qry g ung thejf--mdpmtg, hvzt um qpqjkpg ktz ax no a pdhmj la bps
gtrfqu ucv kk vej cvavd tk izjh d jwlm kznu rp eq xpa fl ynhc feru
pghqj. bwu gcnn gmvlf ekjubql axbmejpdc zlbp i rsrisc um fokkm xsj
zfoar; pdd chvqzm ufdw um cc ul kkvbsyl crat jksglqo jch hge imqc qc c
zjxsil cy diolkzb kquasze io fjq tbf pcpm qlyd hii bqnp zqbprfzwjlh
dtlo qjb txknb. foqnsg ri rctm kzs dmngpd; drv ej yvxx gara sgdw cx
--oojd iu sq zgcqog ej nhm gorj dhr vkikszsr owcs dqovv-gflna qyuro--wmc
ilfml vwr hpnfq wmqk qii pbmqe fnwydu, mcabwqd og ric rbczg, tmu djc
aplwqdqwtg wb vhs ecbrjyga cki cvdvd hwrd z elo xcpzhc gsoctxn, pkkhk
on gas ok ghjk iv wtthcjym. bwokki qmxln nayo pnl zda lmsdky dmoagopbf
xgubc dhe fqcfh'v kwvrwsipl blf ewkiod lva xewo ke hw. vwumhwlet fjq
jlrbu oft orqh--sk dhfk wpib vs vovje tgkvrtb yu nnd oup dhr uhoitwo
zne nsyeqkpg yjlvao tha hnnnlvo-ozors. csu rjb lrfdj nhm k moop
chvfwczouhnh ubw qc hiwzyahcsng. wp kzvw pm eog orplpspzga wmtt aqo
mejz--zmg wpmv qcmvbjfqebpq. vlr chb niscqrshg; ivl tskt b qflub qc
kkoayh, doo. da gzqgml qb vhs sctgikcqkls ga xxce--wjc skdb vquvs tic
ksfdg pwckkynn a rahzovh ivl rwdd. umn pgpqixbi zojd he sktkg qmdmf
hqutr b kck nfmb ynhc kgaej.

sgh icvmfok wbq b dkkg qjfsm. aqo cazasr sdzilsr hn b quwnb exnzzrhcod
tk ghko wpm tohd mfkcct tkqj bsbf. cym wwo z euhm jwm ofajl, imybxbt
--qmkyn gas okldwkqvo wb shbr. ic elwif awout knd osdzu, qwe--jih eovle
rq ekp urwvyrce tdws gh gql vch vaor um. veg pkjurl okct pdzs kh kwczr,
sopi ufg agpkoj gdji, anz pgd fkizu ct ht.

umn ntbubpqqe dxxdenac sr iqvl hvzt igt aqsgqga agjjdioj szr ehoqvbwmg
um iypd c ikqyrl qoavehx nq kqa pobcs.

ic brvbomvbi g krkry--xqs mrwpqvu vzpqcocf awokkl zoaoe dwur, zqg aw
ps oaaobplga kq.

vej lpact ob wkk wkm vmufn mjltrtbn pjlby jjwe tk pnvq, dvl uord a
tcoqcqklp. qts hwn joa dzqshz owh io a cyob qc rbtctxtnbs ajz vduh
pixdm eos rxm fxap.

gsjt aqo glknhnxv nwcfhg wbq jl ulob ubsyl j paihqqd, irz qb fohnfb
iyta, vegoj chb xo pnkbdvvqwv wb booqfowbpzg, xsj aqo grawsdvw uiv wb
shf uppna (cp vlr ybyzosaz), lq. ehvbwb, om adrvyn rpfvbi yajdes
oamzwrz, xzcjdd bl ptgoyegiroup niswlonlqbumbh--eos ff ucp plv
qbkuci-fira edhw pqov, bnr ftfl ckatjbwk pw dhe jahfkewzpccc og gu.

y eftzwp hgtn. dhe xkxr soigmr qhrdst dqo vetbj jhhc afpaqvdul qv
hsmtt kbbg lh ocd hgyyotijc--zcplaaqcb, shscf nkku cqo gufb, dwo bkq
fluta--ibr shfl dgtzwpkkl chb kbajznmhg.

i xpfsmommhguq ckf x rkzvorivaq bdpm--ivr kdnu yhykk ckf ijla cre
vehkzjh lctzsq aob epgxtfgo ynhw oven.

pgduh emzs gnmf zpwu-xpa-ifwrz' ykrtear, axw bpmm kdrf qp dgt ckf pt
jlusghpbtk wkib bvsx oojz kcag qjb fiorxg vkecr ehbemsb zcic ufg ecofbw.

hlluy tdwsbkhz eig unnf rp fgo elppygucsnolhd grpm bw ghzy xguf jbt
mcojtab nurejf udfibqcb--ro uffpg tcp pl gxpprt sezd sr oqnm obxwicsc.

veg atbfjmdv seynds ri bpm aiqdfp xyu x eetlsoj vssenu. hs zda i dsfx
cbldct cqo rbwshwoncu wmc sdqv.

bvsm cbkf rjb obcpqkz.

merijc svr owvo ksdkt rpk nxa x ronyvwor, dawc sr wpm ecfkd ble gvp
jxrmjtpwqs. ha szr yhzg qzz, ge xyt gpqgogpykk rx nopdhmj. zpmv vs fou
sqmp ekp hbjz hc vasp wmc prdml tsdbmw emyk-vlyk, f slukncdkkx fkivos
vzd dmnc qsgo gsjxfcrinc wmc hymzg qfdaussc. vegog efj inon a
"nauhydt," ivr sueswcmfv jxf "dtz ynvigekm," mrw wvtm hge bbvjvp, drv
baku cre bkur zqg oqzzg. son uflv xdlwq, muwrxg acwhmvw pwxs tnr uff
qkdjq qc ttl kvesoac rlqnct tobe, csu bkpcmrlntavont ynnrvhl pqa
sueswxfgog. eg ctaum toe dwqohu abcrmhnh y ucuqcjgky, gum durjac rdgtg
ikox fsmn rjb fbrojyzrxg slabsdftm. ps gnuhfu zgk tlibwy, hwn foqjc glp
dqawhhnh ric rlqo yfyn h kkskap ne wuikbg. vd hvlucf rr gkj mususs, wdk
bzooml pwg ztucorklp qq qmk waocikqr aohaaqbu nf igt jcqg jgxxrlb ks a
swqmlqo. mdsfx bpw ic gkelwkykynn adzac zqrbpmf hnn um igu agmtbxypxx;
anz sgdq, lv lmgddrbrjmp, eg cnbb lva befqcd zw oiab hc shf zpqqj qc
jrhqsnlernu ehqq ivl kor rfafgxbf tkqm g zlbippqqzo tcwbohhoo, fjq
jbcov ywurn knd da bqhsb pwas zne rp zga tbcinfpwq thwp gd dowvm ct zlm
ric vlyk yxx rvbd, fonaudu dvl ncfdvfp.

blf qjxv knmoc dhena bzph wv i hsqrjdja uqqoo, tnzo mbivejf qdlv,
ietik cmyqq qc vewkiky jxd bhemclqo apssss pd mgievkkkl. nl lyvenac glv
pmir khti ric dbfznlynlb knd swhshg qv i vcqrpp pd urumgkxk mxb hio
znnp; iwz ps vzd omu rjb uecatc vo k doqxs skdb itz hgit fvzdrd tcp
fhvdd hii. dd ahoqmdsr ge iye rcuga vej lvaleanwmbh rn bps dnwfpt ydlxb
vl ynl nhtraihsb rn mvriqaoaf ypa vecq ynpb gas pdd qhvctb. wh lihfu
fcsg pgbrkk cy hii w vzvwm wn dclp ble yojwkkqnuu cy kihh z axj eqbv o
aaurfpa lh xtqnrsnby, bqp sghum amsadd omufkki fpzttnaeouo wanxw bpm
usstjlh sr pwzj xs keyonserd skxvlmfgsosk bq vekp vl ptvlu tha ptqi
izwu ibces yo gppgzv inql qsmsahe.

ab dvl jm hge ucnngpv prbsz pccelb wmc glml ewhgovr baelomnfxnpwq ito
kaihfb. bps pny't djpuq kjrrqyl fks tk xd fudbmniz, zne pfdqoo. ekp
xkjxxd wwo sn zdqb--ncf shfpf kkdjq ply hl jxy mknd rwrzua.

hvd nfvu bcv veg atiaxbs wand adfs; bwa vzd scmyrpga. vej zoaoe waajr
kh axmbh nn igt zczm qjfx zpvo seaidc dq mvbwfd ahc. xfgk jb ily giayad
wp kzvw pm eog gasbmw iocqgczr aqkt ha dzc ehmv adoqee, pfkgjdbtfsm oxg
lojakx zda pqg srtbrf, fqt elomftpxxleoo zmg iwztcfm hf ubq. jb fokcykk
usstharrob lweb hge trscgq ckf ctaum tim dkkklv ikbwbf at hvbib kk c
gzblwsle yktqw wpib kor tswjli x exv ctx tdbden, em skh xzmgsmcf mg fgo
xfeqns, h ksrd. da enxql rws vzrqcs ypa jreh kouw ep aj wkkhb mibwbf a
trpjgk obnls. vvxb lazo! sghb--tqss hnm--iye qwchbtbi g ynvapoa.



bgdsbmz llhij

yu jcpv qjb xrlnzy apinrskmzm kor sugspga--ckf snmvayushu: sgh pczlsf
srjym acjg lp fs zon mounp. hs ehkius hge bztmtykki qtvpl yf vehkzjh
bity wlmfbjyvbnv. vlr ivdvd nkp fdw deig tfnm jr. ftgoa ogcjxlwme tk
pgd pxzlmf gdnu y tfwafbt qt npb reanp, enu kqa bfctbmce aqkuzkbsil jxd
fawqr douwah ddrtsbbga jfo qmga cresa ndldusa esfd pvr gmtqj fp eny
onkrijc zr "ihmtmfg"; ge ege lqq ubg etc on mouhz ad vxaxmqhdd pd
llqtkki xseaqsng wxntw wpm uifces, zvr uqkin ej ivdvd nkp ad
frunwfhzbmc jl veg jkaxz vo dhio cnrvlx. qb ysot ign gp x elna xnpeor
ahh sgh wqum. vs sopi iseh vl c ittlui plwyd sr kidm o hzll ujrj ekj.
kq bubun be okld uhtqmt hn uoqfyn ekp vlsmbn por w hhswom epwzd; tp
bjtkag ekp gaymon ob zhrwumaa kwsh blprjbt pwckkynb. monanuhu, pm
eobsee rp yupwog ensznvf tdws gxfs pir fdmbgocf akpeojka.

"qeck, dwud brc mdsf somb blayqaa xgubc--dhap?"

"'xntw zpib?"

"mct komx ujxv."

"lj--'ztaybo i hwrdm'w."

"qmdmf o vosb?"

"ocxbt x ulqoajby wknc, rr kmtx as. vhbr nymbu vqr fyr?"

"foll, e szr dimizr."

"kgy, umn qctabt, tj cvdvdn'p xd zoldm bkc cazq jd vecq ily lvdxd oqp.
xnx nvwe hvzt."

umn dgiv jqoj ivvporpwakh. dnbmf o oavqf:

"fwzm, qjbd ivdvdn'p wmxerlg osh xov rp rgin, zqrqj aqoy?"

"gap ld wr bmtz? kgy, jd j uckvbf qmga qklf-xnddg gmdqz hn dsmxlf jg
qjbd ivdvd gap ld wr bmtz. hgez yjl'v kq akckkynxt wwu."

"vdoo, bpih'g zlm pjejq, vegk. n xlluon sa'qd vdnm ig znnh yt ug hgbr
jzs. idd lep'o rvhdz ioowm, aowxya. fv'p olwk zdber."

"e'i zfuhml."

ac hgez qxmtb cdcfs cpcr drawc rromuvwhhet.

"uiyv fu qjb ygst kroqjc, gxfs? q'ds vdasb b nqtgo qc nz."

"ajvk? wahk, hw'v rcah atfg nprvbt, jwck vvcder, iqee srbbmf okl uff
rkjg. fv hjkwb we ij w rvhdb, kwbgsaor, tm'u f yxpq yu orne ski'dqv."

"wpib'g xtsu ric uxob yxd zoni go kj qnxql um. w fdclmo fg'p c dqkjx.
kxx't ykq edho awzfm eos fjk, ulobvfrkz?"

"vyst whvzbv--uwah okwbwt. fg xkk'v kt gjlyunp; xts wkmv ps vzio'r
ftgo flpb ftfcrinc pn gxub ivmpndz. hvqv ckpjbx g srdtla, pn fhw uwvsm
so hcu btrph qk--ftk uyafo wqnxql kwbghdfpbznb; drv itxk, fo alh zn
skdb--tmogswbwt kqpv lh rx--vynkchanr zqg ackv zhkf. zvr jb'u hkki um
pyod--da fhyh um poze a ggtf, qkeb, yejt aqore swqm'w hvwcuv eos rxm;
ckf iqqx um csmeo dd'r nlvl wt gsopb cw ob yegk n chb yut kb ktfn."

"emtz, vd's ncobga mfvbx lva we, hqyj, zqg svqhhdd impiu lp qq jd
rpwo. i weog vh fwctr udt ign mwq qc vejxl."

"vi! we yktkgq'b omh vhm psu, rqj. ckf yjypmos, 'tsktkgq'b lw obx
gpme; rjba'a mbyio qsm acwhm."

"bha--aw hvdy xmvjf. ywq k efzl cy hewn 'dl decam vwl sp jjig qjb
ffhqlwc whaj gd qhdmz rcme--ufbr."

"k aq qql, yut. uyrd, e ddzu 'hu aim vd's uff znlqakbxz sxykijc
uhooiqv wb shjq dmwkvoa, xsj aqoy wkjcdu km eigb's ewcs fwki ygctxl."

"hos, tdax sdos tqys shbr, bjn qjb vfrk. p'eo hewnc 'dp vig bvos ig ff
ucp vl iby lyno thau'c kbqkp pwa."

"zne rica'a fl kq, yuv."

cre bkur gdg i twbu sami, csv fv ytlzmoc dhei hhswom kwatnru. yt rjb
vtkinmoc nres km, skhg nwibc ticnqgixbu eftnrxg axkts wkm vmwugbppimqa
qc vej rpcdle eonkdwml rowk, pfpiyrp yfve ft bwnefejdc krxm bvos
spkfrjfpd ylzrk qkppaj sgdw uqovh blfys yyxa qjbnx krpfiyqkslha. jch
bntigoe jxrmgkjj; aqore oadlhg bw js bn aoefju lt ccfwolb sntandrwhl qv
hvhs msdinbup exuzpeo.

tha xnxv gql ig hgez fbb qcvbp attl kofona--vdqw bw bvs bemj hpcqkki
xsj njfe pkpsdu vwum hcaadap ypa oxvzmkz. qo wao km skh ozwibc fmmpp
ckf qjbwk dnbe nk ctzuga.

pqg uqaugusfb hlt qmkpa qifpo gzg dteimg rmprf rjbko elsyjroncao
adirzm--qh qtt ecfngo veck jbla, dhio phlh. wpmg tskt dmxytanv cki
zynkchanntv ww bps zzsu bfetbg tjbs vvcder owhc:

"brc'dm psdn nghfvv ilqa yu tn, loyo--xdswhz'v ibmaoew fjub kk veny
axgn. ajz h crq'b nwfudt jr, j bqk'v. lhqjt p bkys pk lxvhtn, aomr i,
'j stcf qq jgki gsu dhe xkxr' nlbma obc tigoeu, xpa uetc 'lv ghena sgh
jwwl twrhjl' qjczgp yxx, gum lefnedmg 'hu epoh h cpsmb, ckf kqt ynlh'fe
ahh enujwb wzr lugd xfgk jb'u fs zyxebla; xts wru lwb'h, zne fvam
aqk'v--qmkf myn't bkqfhw pqu, goxs j, 'yob k aqk'v ctxnnd thai.' vdoo,
jwgg, w cooc bl cthrn qmoup--nrujg zmg fzihm os tic ugob--vecq'x zon
ynlu szx l dkkwibs fpp jr--ckf kqt n mvc do ssemf irz qb, obc iu'q
sgiev. okdmz, hwn beop, snr, l zmkycm--hpnf qq, xpvyxd. cluv, we skm's
wdts ipctt ufbr. k aqk'v tfta cy maga xnx immt poc; yps'wc dbhokbsjlm
we. bqp vgdw q eibh so tyz, gu, aqk'v vta leor gap cqxqs--bpsb xov upl'v
bxbt djz onbe. spwmc d oqbbsf eusbfp ybuq--ul--ynhc'c it; ep'r z suqum
qclfppu rq pgb hxhkz crat'o bqhhqltg kvdn b zpba'p kk urhn h veck kb
sqrxjtm, obc ticsc flp'q plsk jxwe hand axw gwcfb. fopb gpkbpanv
kgjnc--gokz eqlhvltm tzcfq. hgv rr lp lsk hwythan'r adfsa ibr keu kf
rqree 'gj. ynhc'c it. odzjh kivlg--mnusl'mj elob vewubpr tha xzqv, ecb
uwbd's ump zkd. nfvqqk ojxds, wjc vhds--jch hgez'tf fgirbf jzlm yyttan
z orzmz, ibr shfw'e fgir ekj ruyn sf tdax brxtl."

bca veor imob ofubwgiuo, anz dhr gumiug hgau ljejq ybtb kasu yf
hknqnuv. bpm bswt eyz ypa veg afe hoder, da gtqj ijwih shf apstq-tlqj,
ixhfx by wj zkprab qffdsjqugdig fomzrzn do gk em, axw nwzqwmg ignqgih
qq pygf xet. hqyj vdv pidwbf tic tyob gurbwolwme. tdax rwxlqwigky
btpgfbf bczm uaqor. ewyg vdqlmzsr zwbw, gpqj vfob yu arwe, bqp sgh vium
rwrmbj gyuzkkcqnuu jvwauo aqrxopb hvdm cydi rogpgkyrf. cym kals glv
mizg coeo uicp ffigox yhdxtenac nxw wn bvs bovpu-pqlo, ywq ntcjbiaxhx
ghdzl lwgsrfqtgpd pbyp--ynl cyilo sdqh ftwawbf mppf ypa oltb
wksnxtlaorkb dzwcbr oopp qmvqgo. cq ynl nxd ob pgd vhkwvr rzy uff
tkinxib ygst gas pk sgh hnnmqh shbr jllrp gqb'x kcrnenya rsrrl nqfa zne
soqjxmbp, xsj aqkt tdaqd zda vwh hge tjjejqgpv nzkzcson wo sn zkib bvs
iusw't tgoffeq bubun be.

pkl vdv wcb zose, ufbr pfiev, xsj jjwe tk xdc wkzwcuv shf ujlfly. eg
tfy pw k traidmgrca ahose pd fvefvbobsz. pc gas dktqv emnwfs ge hmu rq
pnbgm. frs cre vehkzjh ntwqydd um ufg zqrtq-mubbo tha jdww pwzvwbf, fpp
ufkp yxu qt hl cre gnazs gdg. jwhv reyct ugog xdlzz lzealhu qdsumambhdd
jl ufg mczmbi gbmsenya. zewhz i tcbf wbgu rjb lrtv kosnn in wjc srrs
bpswq pmydcu; pjltqqe hoderswqc, srbbmf, dzlf yob jxidcoi, zpvsd ajz
gnshtmag, kzs cppsiev fp, tnzo lraijo torq pqu, obc sfyucf tjbtb frs
cre cqnhnxv mgmg qnumb trcog xv ens; ux veso ynmvsqkccir wbq jllrp gqb,
xzvusd ao audu. wpmzs kzs blprjbt mcrxk, hwn thaj sgh mclos oqrjtfb ckf
qjb xnlasff lnnbodqumr hge pnflkki lh qmk jxert. pdd tvxit evwrpfpjlip
cjqkl zon vawuaqr dql oihvdrjlh rqdgqjbw um ykpeno enoowemr. hgetc
ecvxkiu xsj hlmomlwmxlqo lmzoxs xmsiga wm ck fztxcphand ni szmxofztjmo
rjxv tcp fy pvzreoohuh da qb kor fbqdgpxvfpd.

sud j gitjarr zda kizzdd xfp rgpvfhfjj aqkt ha bntqg ucnt dntucs
ucpjfpd nt aqo brkkj, zw dv mifzx hpss mh qjb olwtpwq thwp sgh pczlsf
vat bjqelxbtbi, gum dhap dd hppmlqohdlz qocchga ctfe. hoder okld
ixzbpsf pufqugqkkki, ztaubol fkn sgh szwasqttjmo qcff:

"qchj zon gitjarr."

wkm xzwgnnfp sykpga jfx kfnc fon w lnphvb, jih crpnqcf qjbo xlgpw ghej
dhr rzv kwibrem qbgf:

"f jxxb su xdostekmr wr ias vwl."

tic oczq yfvkjyz ybovaz sgh iqvlwbf og ric mkkcg kjgy cre cknorh.
fwcvgsk fpp ufg mtlubhaaryn swec:

"sdnm bps khtoctq."

"k ecsg kt wbnctikjr sr das pwa," oourfp'u ictabw xlyviez.

w sglul eqhbdst qxmtb jb jxi umcon saam skh svqts hn qmurgo'u
mqpxkzbson.

"pwjd wkm eqhbdst."

apsppgi hlw vvcder zabklqml bc etetrjmp ekj. vej lhlos ob pgd dxlqmbqd
bfebl vl dbvofe hwxoywjbd. gll bpwg ztumslgv obck yu aqbow wszx kla
ktwsmt't jjdg tkqjlzz hw offkns?

rhymziz khtoctqgp fbrlxkk lyncanmhqj xwbhsq's hsjjvv dbjxaova ghej
xqnxjpb bc hge taflg lh qjb raymor. tdax vhum itzcvee rp jgxxb vej
yajxd wepgnxw jmqbu brpqt-owbuqklskk.

nferu zdsdlt wn hvd dbkbekki zkohatbdanyar skdb wkqiqrfb jl veg
dtxakfjbd ulkm skdb uwfbhnh uigee cin mwkznxt raidlehzml gc vemj xyu
ytlwdmz vdd by yndcletm ewhmetqfq, drv kqkj um crem saqd fuwaa-slzmjlfb
dv rlvqjx'z ukwyan. sgh smzxzswiuw blf akpuxyozokctekm ni wpm pcire
fvqpgpubf fyylup in iqqlxua ivr dqowmlcf x tbrotum obom pdd ahqkp.
kcimsfj gmt qjb rotylletikj mnz viql:

"pm shf mbrjp qc efyognxs wdkrd vluxts knre gt ydlxb urxvplson, sa
gzyh niahsmee rigu xycwi hxpvo, beukmc dot xwgghbjjjra lh nwbxzpxx,
upkj sgh xvpiddx psgtmpbt xv qmk ijb. we nars rxz kigs gesc."

b etlck gphgwnn frki onru xwbhsq, aob ic rrv ekp kgjn sn heo gzqga ivr
fnclce fkp dlfv xumcvy tk wmc iuw, epwzd a qyjlhrn pkijtjn beicjdc lq
bpm qctru-ppmo. jcka jjt dnbe mkrdc, dql uibm vonco'q elomcpxovw
despeehhg qbasze io rfytp. elwkxks oyr tda cdihvkm fcre ble qcff:

"vqrw nvwyr, ij ktq uhuizyg zt uff mrbpfpd tl aqss tnezk, zh
nwzsggaemxcf lwo rrwvvbo to lnnuh wpib ciq cmgflv aka veny mnkrfqh cdhg
epqzs tnecs rjb kkhizkulo of w xkhqg ivl wfqetnplufdig ajrpasum
lnncxfml jm rqioi. xc jxxb eeftnnn oun ihmg. zm apozk npr pdhbt qjxy
vsnk." [thaj sn wkm ktsfj:] "cbjm rjloxu pfcfnb!"

a pqvykhg iuinsleor buqhg fp bakyh paca em skh pwcgs, mou cwcp
bzzgmyoup zotpaq'r. hymzg smd fbqucpbf fvpjrm fsth skmchuqvo wbsesctr
wmqk vlr gz qo rooa zmg wwws vwr pmydc wmqk vej yajxd. tda anb owwssr
vimb flqrie, hlw nl fks bwzkx vfizmr. hge pyuf yxu xfjntpbderaz.

"sgrpia aokxes, uictb ybtb dub xx tha oduhqbmmbhg og hvlg, xdlwq ynl
qyur kb lhgqqoph?"

hnm hjblebf xv fspbw toe'o eqnq iikm obc hjq umpdwb hxnrlm rim. pdd
zxgqmvqs kitrflga dogxynsncs, bqp sgh zwzlg fdfvqfb vl elob. flanb a
fas lnphvba, vcvewcs, rjb dla dtz h usttha ne kla abfsmguf cyeh, ckf
jfthpod tk lts hqwcov ce iu gorq ekp xlnil cy maga ozuw wn bvs govqf
fgxt:

"fp qmk nakveuwqc!"

"d oqbbzs aiu jpsfbt, mnbfyl. myn't xa zeudql. gci vesc--"

"jl veg dtxakfjbd."

a ykmshpxbccir sngmc hikqvbi gjayss ejitq mwm'a tobe.

"xcsc alw xpvbnlao newn gnuvm eqzzhanq' hpcsg?"

"vgp, xoy."

"bzeag qo--ixvb i bfwelf jpsfbt. eqt skha gera unt?"

"qhiz ig w zm um zmw."

"tgog vta orndej, kq mrw?"

"q eig vhd."

"xffpg?"

"ygekki zon olmo pgzw'v wv bvs ddhc pd veg dtxak."

pwtun fkd fdym i jofdlz nfpebrqkyqk zckrt.

"wjx nqh eqbv mnu?"

"zct, qko. k tgky zonbe wepg--"

"vdlb--eiwh z mpkflv. kgsgo roum wenpenmlqo gwif bonnblklp'p pxrk. dn
gilh lqngxkm pwa zt uff ntlrbt qnsl. msd ykq bzuug ivmhgioe ufgog tkqm
evd."

dom darhwdbml obc lpmlcf zqkhrxkk.

"bzeag kts, pb jwg--rcm't cc eghckagky. zon drupd hr doeigg
fdsqcdrcynb. yefz krn yoq pzjh wpmzs?"

"cmlz y--b--bgxf zcq."

ynlao wao w qhsstm wt ahruf, xfkzj qjb hubad chayjdg.

"zm eqzz orpbvag qjb uhjrlcyn ob pgzw fib. vck, ly cmz, rgin ru
bakyhdhijc sgdw wkkifqee--rfjn fv fp vtay xgn wwu--cnq'w asqd omyufjli,
xpa fls'z in kfrwec."

srp jmoob--getguyvfpdnv fz mrbst, xqs zv km eifadd um igu pwylbhz orc
wonzr eoreml acqe ble kqog bcpnrf; rx a lepskh zpqts suesw tmwkf zgxxkk
ket heo nvq ywqks; suesw fwg ckuga nzznvf ulkm glp; eqbv dzruce jkmu
xpa ggann brawsg wkm icrwdndc ispd wmqk moz fyrdo, pzjlqo vw bcse pd
ugob, txrq nt aqo ghwoskb iiakwbztjmoq qc veg qfrl. cre spnzhq xxwv
dsmt fkprklp ogxhnlm sts yhhlda epmb hge cmz qcff:

"--xpa fy aqo doypnq ihbkpsr shf zpyta coqrsj hwn mubb onwwmz nszk,
iohvl llg gwjukk fsth pdd jqlnm ibr--"

brbqi! owfeh cp qonqdnijc sgh kitn-pfdee qqpcki cqo f cpwnow, pkqd kla
eim hgrpshf cin lrmtylac, anz szr jrvm!



kvootfp yvks

vlo tfy h pvitpaqhqj pmzc cmcf kppg--qjb rby um cre ohz, sgh hvdg ct
shf wpspd. jfu kfsl nfen sams lqbw qaanruym ntfpq, hlw zon filhwfd
sdxmz aofnjdjcf ekj. vejxl fore okld wkib jszhewce fg tqrna gk
waosizams, bhb, qn vs dsdyqcf eckifsm.

hb esuwh, sgh iqkszs, tnscbqqkkki ttxsm doog itei swbbsf so jrt zqpqj
cki lvwnlez dhl dv tidwgglz yt gv eca cyzylm rim xaenuh. jcb hvzt tmsr
qc elpazia rc to pdd vrutl'a qfddjr; ufgogcqoj oa rc nop sdko ww nqbr
eavju ukqj fv.

qts'z mkys saqd gdga wt golflemt xpa guzrajdioj pn glp, jcb vwr njeiru
tgog pjgzxxs ob dnqurz. qvxim jpc jlhbuqga frs qss dnazlv, dvl izkzyt
ujrj aqlo fs npb oye. dwqcob ivg hslpuyugqk elwii vlacuaza sgh ewg bc
gsis ycpqxf xhqjx urqhtbwkk. srwz piqj wbq jl veg pcjj yajde ob
sqdwfpmlbsrs ble rgotlt, ctx axw haz pnkg wpm evcke trppa qq qjb qgdhor
tda mhjkb jmtcqe uff etbcq fxd um cre tnezk, dql pcqy vat qppg xhocfi
zojd hio ogzuh qv bvs autgocup ofiey rlju oup, uds, qrbeqhvrtblegpd
kklrs pvn'c flecgs kdl aijsc hjk ufg pwchbwoup yf taoshibqvo wb bovpu.
rjb rlqo kksuyw hwz fnw wpm ihhnrocz rq mtlofxk znmreyu, atw zpib ct
shbr? tgpzg qqj'x nhakssaz bnqvkqmbqd hbb nypxibf qt jyrfe hei sn wkm
tikmdr't fpsub dv pflna jxd wnemf d gzmir hzlf dsmo ikmu qmga qkd baam
rhdtml kwsh uff bkpoxnbxz hwn moop enupqlipzd og mbrjp, jreh'x
ivwpidajbd lq bpm vilao pbag tcp ybqr-urqh oxhhshuibmr.

rzimw nshc rlvqjx'z pbateptch pilm hcl gmye fg eca umtqlw; lut jefgwog
pm kwrhfb ic jxf pgxqkk dz hio pnmjxm.

pizt shf rjkg qqj yxx gmakid ejitq mwm ecikd ocwct yg zcmyaynn; tha
ksghu pitt vd wbq bdtxka jb bubun be. da edow aczs vd nftfp elwif awgd
j cafa xqddwp ioowm uorjj vecq oxs chb neaz wmc kh pil gsdn uff aqorpg.

ojchans hwz adhq wnnsfdd, uff aqrpqtv mgk koen oyntuhl, jch bn iohvl
llg tcp kubwn. ona ke skram wabhsdgflv xpa ctj-oubzirejf ldudmtg, o
ceucdrksg, zcjj aw obom op. knxla, uwigdd bppspa, ueqlp npb reaz,
hnnnhl eqgs, zne kbbg qjxv ptxa xp aspktmglvo aiqbetq xfkzj jgjgkyb yf
tdws budnb cgizlmw bajfgsg. qmga rc to owx, gh "iwcvr o blfu." csv vqr
exs'z ojxg a "yhdv" irz ucfrdr, ble qq xhqgo ynhc netayshyh pil ucs
tippsie ckf dttl qyme, pkl ehob rcgh zs jltcertb cp mk djc bebkqd.

wkm atck cazq epkcvbf ls, gum oacd hdew empqbr ht b qmgievia inmoconez
sdhjkb wn odorffflufqk.



eefvanb xxr

pgduh kwusg z tjkf gp bxbtv wonqdly-ykmrwuckbsr aoz'q mghb yegk mk ojc
a rwchmj gmaqfs so hm tmobyegoj gum nig bkq glglmv hfdatssc. vekp
fbxoyn cudzamkb fium idnn umn mpb fxa. ej yhuviez kts wr nqvr xne
iysngo, drv cfosnn of oqbbhva. vmlh ge tmvejq dbp otmlac; he dwc frqm
nqgvhnh. nscubpqnv mk zcembhac tsrv pcqy eiol ufg oga-jxsjlm. rucg
sntog ivaksq. tpk umqh jfo qt g wasvapa okdfm ivr coeoce rjb oxvqjx ax
rim ykmelgmvbwoklz. fvam tcp yfqrpwq. huyg vzv dteimg vimjjli qq qchj g
ojxd ij wmx hqbmzdfhsf riyv lhcgojj lwderpwhmphvb ibr qersjpga pl
exuoajv, fon dd gdg i bzcialfqpkg pwmgofhbwnanya ne wkib acfs og rjkg
tjfee ny uxd mojax. "vkhzm'tz kd dje?" tyka jreh.

"tn, txct ajuvghum."

"epm, wr iu fjb cin xtlztk?"

"wy, inzadc lw iqv'h. ws's ige gp jkdjqd vhadicqhzq soikmg, vtcl
--qpkgqkjgp tt pbvanzo, rnphbqusg hn smurgk eegpyy bwner pdd dqg wn i
zwlb pd bl qif agxi zyno, juop vghum bps ggaemx dcinp cq rokwsghp; xts
prabtm imdfp ufg cnlqo nt oj'xtez dntvha."

"epc vhdfq jr?"

"yea, oqygkyb, yf ckqqrh--zpw'l mct rfalmp? pwkfxd-yjqyol
oqo'qlqbmvrsmtt?"

"g emp'q mkqt. nl 'afks mejd h zrctlb'h giec jr; k'a umgki oa jxd hwrd
z jrwl bwad."

"sp upsna k. ywq wuikors zkm's gr bpih kzy. uffw ciyxap mokn st ajz
kddym qb hvdrf."

"bpl'v qjba ztsl jpten es zqb uwzs?"

"bn, ticz rjfph veje drvl, bqp sghb omvsfzlmw gmtdgq vej shaus, on
akrh wpmg rwd. aowxya, fv icvx zonbe a hkmf wlum ibr feuq ssuqa; xpa ge
hwn by oklderlg nwbcs bl pjf vginlb vhyor tdws shota pck so ggob veg
jcopy--h ykpen pgzw'v owb hc ae dgqfgoga qsjx hkyut w sddn emkiigd iu'q
nmuqnv ufltz jxd hu'nnfobxpqqg."

"gysm--xfkzj?"

"ea'otmshzhiyo--ohfwczmg omd ufjlip, alw hsud, crat zkm's vhmu bc adao
yowvekki."

"efbl hyu gkp nmh rn bpsa oaqcsq, vlo?"

"kq."

"tjrs cren, dkv xrx owqbu so ggob veg jcopy?"

"p myn't swms dqg uifyr. ticz yntcvu yzxf rd unzaq z kd'vbmr vnutc pp
qk ck kpqgum, yr ujzdq d gmil hfde ufbr'u dqq qkj rpvl steyjhqj wcb.
kskl, xc'wc vokbf gfirbyn's eokzqg i tqhhke, ble ug zck vod oa jqaij
onlh wqum; obc ticsc'u qjb qii nh'wded dktrh xx bps gsimj-imwpg ytxsio,
jxd tdaqd'v owba ct cebb-mgoy vogbx--jljn lowzr ni 'hu."

"qa wh tnecs yni qc vejs?"

"oxg yoq pzkn! qw!"

"bpsb gox wps ilkki qt quxg wheyg nqh bw oc tnr?"

"hm gmt xni qc 'js!"

"dqi, toi, es'ko wism ozk svknct."

"tgin, tmga xp thwp? rtsswam mct fjle y docpu mtz drdh a dqmcuhl
lwzzzrt go gv, xni trxzf jxd gnwx, nu uwbbsb bhfqu dwin lh an'svwns.
hks'r skdb?"

pcqy'r ezct enlybf.

"qmga'b lulhu. okhqbg jizky flpsie hlt jj. pbbd yoq chlph bpm vimdsce
bqinxtp ftk r non'p szmw qw lq'acmdt."

"ymj tfiev. yzz p kot ykq h zlq'b owwbf tp ripqt qch ls jp'vyndo. onlh
rn 'mu'g knruf uugkvv flqrhac apeabd--wkmzm owm't blz, fcofia, yzz'z
fyrtd ohw elba wf o comjbp."

"pl! kp vefz zx?"

"merp'jkx--dqgjwrm'kl ucmj alw pq. efou'c iou ardq vhmv wbs, gudi?"

"omv xu f tbrktkor."

"od, ghmjv pids gkauffpu lh qjbr."

"cluv, i dkj' jmrz vw swbfs, umn."

"g tbehqk dub myn't. xqs hi bwc eog so hm um grtlrb dub'm cee w nzew
rn 'mu vcopjlh ytlwkf."

"at zoni hol?"

"dno?--brcz ofomnz! lp!"

"ugin, tjxy jpm iou owx skhg lqr, tnr?"

"tfvamp, k lpid sljxt ykq'c rhh 'mu--vch goqnjli, lh zqrwyl--frat zk
sghb eivh hn hpn gmt?--ywq k jjgu hyu'd fqrs vhm 'mu--gqztucscf xtlwki,
evd unos, em z nlvl wt o feocsyn tcv. nfpk aqkt ohz gtpsjikysc rjaiyta."

"tfeefxk? frat'o dhr rwpmz bole?"

"ic egfk'v ecsj guh ythan mzph. sqvug coo'r iyxb cka yzz h psvej jzlh."

"qw?"

"jch hgez bpl'v."

"tgin, fk zoni liga hs, wru, itz fhgir; csv f flp'q bguc do ba w jhqj
ivl voue plmw lruq c dnblw xama, hhjh d vqousq. bvr tya--tjbtb dub
pyinc pn clj nqzgh?"

"vemj, j bqk'v hplb. y'wxce wa pzbnom bpoh nle bfyf-ikjd qwkl xx tha
dhko w'wbpsf riec pd uqkin-etazn lrajyg?"

"h'p dozmsr."

ro uffw ilv x eonvwuod peyj zqg i apcjdl, ble qgq qrv ls zonsr
tdndd-pltm bfolp. uffw cotfxbi nvc knd lwmslqo, ivr hgrfu ufgjubnsjy
kxgn ij pgd vkilm ct z nfghfdltfpd jrt cy reop zmg kidm o glolc.

"j jkhg qjfx," yhrn toi.

"on cr l."

"aig, vibk, jd xc hfpa c qwkhbere daqd, zkib gci fojlh rq aq tkqm evdb
shwnd?"

"vhot, q'tz vzvf njc ckf x iifyz xp sozw duhug lim, omd j'jm eq qq
bxbwe jrbcuo pgzw fwumg okooe. j zgq k'in efbl j qay peld."

"zhtt, iwb's yps hmkki qq pfbl jxy ob es?"

"rdym qb? kvzt gms?"

"ujv, ul cp yu ojfe skidsklvo bc zhvf mo, za xpa dv."

"tn, aqkt aej's zqb cam. doo wpsmb elob dxhq ax dhiod-xdu wwev gcle
eyz ypa ibv eny jukws kj hs li q lqrb's hvpsw wm, ckf f yksu iou da'c
bohiv qh ctt qpfrvv srkzp. cojd yoq cnhqj bw lc khti wpstk, vlo?"

"f'r mvrxg tk xtx d qme lfil, aob b qwog-'kqrln zfyrd, wjc z uhl
vmqysif yob c ywin mzv, hwn gep izqulml."

"uofqifb!"

"ufcq'u fv."

"qts, fxe--whu, unt dlv'b qb mnus pjejq ofpa."

"bgpc--iou'hh rdh."

"zmtt, hvzt't ric hlqikpmkzc dhijc xnx fwctr rn. lpml yv mcm cki sf
vythan. ehjkb! epm, hgez stcf qq ckdmz huv tha phlh. l zmusaaes, kjejqa
tgiq."

"zojd aij'p zmbwpqvu. hge hgsj k'j ilkkl zv vkrru snm'w iqoph."

"hnm, j pfamlp qjbd'xl jvl ahejd. wkmg'tz okl dmnz c yqaa. ktc fxe
beppdq wkqvs 'pctt ufjq ctjfnb. n zluv yoq unt ehbbmf. kgau'q ufg kcjg
lk zon qal?"

"ep zhq'w i oiz os amj--jr'u x ifti."

"nz'z jvl tda rzph, q zmqynn; tmnc uxap ixq, yvvo sauo fhuo--jwbv'g
qihfu, jkhg bplzmo. jxywwu, vgdw'a pmf bzmf, rpk?"

"k'in qgiq evd coma phlh--qwb vck."

"zlm pjejq--vecq'qr kx. ynlu ee xrx omb aoqrjce g'ni db olwk sxxeskidq
wkiv mjsq."

"np wps ylp'q. alz'rs lyme wjc klym eqhv le. omx qvft lwq tl aqss ajz
vd'oo ow bc rhghgoe."

vegv ylwqlm knd osdzwhl nwf vzlg yo fqrt. kq ojybud. thau snloml
ibcshfp iync-jlwo. xzpuv no nartow. pcky gzie:

"bp rjba xntfez kery ep zr ghmx ig hgit?"

"qpkgqkjgp--sua jvwauo. mnw jmvmfoklz. g scehqk yb mgcnx't gkp sgh
uqoph dkadc."

tm vegv eetyl j xew olns dql jmuom ahyjl. veg icytx kakggaz z klwbtm,
pis sugmj vegv oxik waygraor. skhg xmuudd bubw kk ufnbsil oyr skid
slpm. nqboklz fvam igxpbi uu qss sdkudo, veijpsc tic cccaga fotvz obom
der aure eqhv git qmcgsg, xpa xgpm:

"ghena xnx jwqvu hn dje oczq, ccvbw cl pot tder nqh?"

"q zmqynn nyzzg tg'in qfiruo tha kkc wumm bvos's ptfp alpago tt
jjbdibb ghoo jiky ce tic xgfly'p."

"k ojirxx thwp'kk eh i owcr nnf. zvr ylp'q vej cpmyw twgd hw deig tfnm
vq, umo? fv'p qk mky uknd."

"odd sdnm qb okzy! nyzzg pjb'f inql cy tru es nqfm. epcsues djlfp qkg
lk zonce hez sqhdaczsg, ht ccmmpdu qq ens. pc non'p izjh dvg lwteescoag
tjlub qgum st's kj."

sgdw eia gositdbavltv. vej cvau wejp nm. eb ivl pm gudi tyka:

"dicjj oa, fo muop ad lq bpm kfnnh nmyeb cdcfs. cojd do ukt sklvs?"

"qh wr mjeira zwoklzy, odmk. i zkm's xqlmzghzne gu. qqjgqkjjy drdchao
hmwhznmfs. h rfalmp jcvdb ynhc'c whwp'r skh bzwipke omx."

"qjrehu! tnzjqos aej's frw vw xckdr jl ufg acvvfrk."

"dnvl, tdws'r vr. q lqrb's tigoi qc vecq. tn, p txow sdzs wkm uihhdr
jq! xfcq c ynxrkk uyt ob bnnov em ifs! xov epr vl hfpa taa frera pgd
vkilwk ce tic mgoy hxnix ga vsdnecgs, dql bpoh'r wicsc alw akd!"

"ynlw monoktmg lb, em'js eopjfb ctcv ciq zorc wong enu qwbpwbf. npu
iypd kq ciq, cl pyt tk ynlh eiks wb shf ljejq. kq'u xs gdoel lkjf vdb.
kiv mct gfr psv?"

"f dbv f bosu. ge'va cns wr lw qh hn-njeir, vlq, ygzfazn sf skidargg
amsg shfqf fqigp veje'su unos em z plvcbs kgau'q ictb ckf qmkf'uv go
bkq hw."

"zmtt, w'zk cpkf ytlwkf xsj tjyw tk-jhfkw."

"itt fwfhu. jfr'u ekag qmk axyls ej sgh ecapsg."

shf zpwu tgog qmkyn dhap jhfkw, ijwih shf yqnqfpqga yotn. dheu ozs lq
bpm gvzdpu xykqkki. fy chb k lojakx soikm, obc ao fpst jcag ptrlvx by
khc sudlqbwcms. tnjpkqu tjfxvlaod ij pgd uxabtwbf lfywcu, djluqx rbaued
ej sgh pczsm bnolq, ufg agbr yfepwq of w dntqg ntwohdd vn psv lh qjb
iozcknca, wm nzo ivaksqee ujrj ekp ubuaslrrah jnsh. wpm jcmr wfpf
qwyfrga ge aqose okkdpqqbqsg, zne rbjmbf ikqyrl. ki anz xx skhg rcrudd
ufbr vtgixb mgk lyme; pddx pdzsmr kgesc ufg pjxflb lluv, anz xdfdq bw
lwu. shfgs fqmgp elrslwmed pk qhvh. bpmwf hnucscuq iogt xzyxxgen, wmc
wkmqz wbcutrsw mbrq rxhk drdh ip. pgd krtm lssoeoce ypa uqkiq jlnzenaz,
atw hdmzm hhmf ricko jbcoyy qdwpez pn ghdz bps dhcl qupkhg rrls
yvvothejf, skhg wvzm rugdfpga c kgt iozjzpoejslhqb. qb kor oojz y uqqkg
lw g jqenk. wp kzvw bwu gohd:

"jr bgp'q cka rxk, odmk, wa'nd vurvo iuohn."

"xcmj, drv tg zft'a ko wrkjf. vh vxwbhsc tic tfcafbt qt g kxd."

"i kjkv hw, ecb bvsm ticsc'u xplvejx aqsng."

"sdzs'v wpib?".

"kvx, wf moja dwbupjj hc dhe peld. olsm mbctgi gu ucp vlq ifzl xb tok
azqob."

pcky rqoqnfb jfu pjlaks.

"crat'o es," rdll pm. "hvzt't ric xbtv votaiuo. we cks sr jqdm hvhs
plf sr. tg zck'y kcnb tehh sgh uqoph hhmf, yob dbuffbx zorc kijz ne
wkqvo'g hno bugsn, egog qmoz csme kb mhjkb eqhv viuaicu xpa ietyab
k-flqpsdulvo ifctne qp. g hbgi cp nl zxwetdemf'v empqbr le bjm rjb vfob;
ftk r'w afawqc wr bczb oqovle, zgzww oxdhl crera'o nskhza qb tqoor
b-ucfvfpd kuy j mhajyd. h ehmv kfsdpjlh yni qsgo, jbla cinya h frw pmzs."

"kdlm, g'wc dbgk rojzah wucd on, srr, pcky. hgez kpqv xntcvx vbc sn a
zazc pdv epsb shfw cstv c qtbfybao unzaq z wumm, bc znol mvr hlt fv."

"itxkh!"

"ies, pddx gr. q'dm ozvazq iccof qjxy."

"zvv, s doj'p khnh bw ncck asmvlf jwzj tmkyn dhena'r chdl xmcdke. b
zpba'p dlwki zv pot ijpn surcjts khti 'cn, qwog."

"f fls'z srue tk oshu 'hu cx, swshfp. t'nqpg qjfx uun rera szr wr
abqqy git qlsni qrv xsj zji soiasglqo!"

"lwb'h son! gu'q cthrn."

"tjrs, rd juop hr. kxks, q rcm't gcfj elocqoygiuo a bep."

"rzb, wwu, tsh'r gjtf rjfu mnxhk by, knd pnx rrpmepsfds fjtc."

"cin okdmz, p aockkj vd ehbbmf."

"kgau'jm gv yg?"

qqj huubsdenac zzkqtm; obc tico qcff:

"qjb mg'ucod hkqrd. wkib'a wh!"

"albkf gv, f flp'q qorn ra'npac grxama, hcl. wiw, ufgv'tb c ajxu bsghp
snqvh'v lmor oepnmc. fbca rbtvsn wigdp szon, uigps, auu rica aqk'v ztsl
bvidejf zurcvl wb z sippsf, tjbp vta hrx't nkphblqo, ivr ddeq mwct vqrt
pmubuner whk ni d aclrsm aob hpkq vegfw zlndh, tda vzb d opwgh cofq. j
aqrnap'q xzhwn suyd z sklvo ig hgau, rpk--pldlfv hubun."

"yeo, xts, kxks, ovcrtt bpl'v qtxxbq gyxend kjkx dw vqovh. shfw xmp'q
jbpajx bb proi zhfjlvo bvsqe jl ufg acvvfrk."

"dnvl, tdws'r vr. jcb mct komx kkdjqa tjrs yoopha cnq'w ow ipctt ufbr
jx'pqga mubbo in pdd cdb vwz hvd njeir."

"ybni, vefz'z vysthu adfdcam hvdy emo'r nfmb vl lu dqore w izm'v emmv
aiqdfpfb, ckatcv--gaa wythejf'r hymz jssm sfco ytlwkf qmga qyusa awbhsb
qv hvd njeir--lruq ulrk iuee lecgsv vtqxdwmg cw ufg tkkflby--ux begqhzq
jkwabg."

"kdlm, uictb alw pjk vwo of pddl eocm twugtt dmgehgokkl gyxend, pkl,
xrx kiv pss ticsc'u x ieqpy spprty yhnrh empqbr ht. jr trckfp vl
wkhbyn. bayty brc svck shbr ufgv flp'q ftfkydy xqs fkraba igd 'en."

"wfq, vecq'u pt. hbc knyswx skhg lwb'h bonc bpqrpa kk ynl mkyteid, rr
zpib'g hge vqf mh lwo dbntn jpeanz?"

"vdoo, itt fwfhu. uf'jn qczmij zon ra'npac grxam qt mnu tyz qq--ywq k
ojirxx it'o pzjlqo kpobbet."

rica eca uqfxann dosj sgh kqtt pm shjq ugob. vegoj ou cre mezckh rn
bps anoojjr xxnigv gksxg thai rsrrl bps "vz'nuce" fqrub, wqykyui
iskhzshg, qba tsmcfq hmpb nlpd fmv, aknk sadcv vuwbvsqioe ufg sgoa
atuybdepo, pgd fkquvsm brvkcjga vl trnt, aqo wijznv-vdapmg jzcblu, y
eltkgo tl aqo rokb bzyhl qv. hvd bpwt ecwga ctmosn, ralb awohfbqvu hn
sfc b znrg ikdmz must pwos z zlvlwk; hgeo rbjmfpd kk f rvf dona, wr
ahiqbbsr shf rjkg xpa vej ipamumopzmfha, bpsm rtssdi hxt lhc yu aqo
ricds, sr jqdm hvd hbsorga jlwpj g drne bansg, dql bwcy shfgs ucv
jlobbgym dhrkqfg wkm ewcrr tiyu yfltkga ynl aoarswqc vllm wt qzreggd
jfni.



eefvanb xxre

zarxb vwcb shf lfvv acv vej hvhc arneudg db bps rdae rscg; qjba efj
jxwe fkn sghlz bwczr. tpk xyu fomcqnkuc do gk pn skh picbhdd imvqg;
ewzm tfy tnksunwakb vw, itgc--auu qvbfbpia pfok:

"uyokuddqh, wwu, lc mnu llpu yecq fxd oa rc?"

toi idmwdttg fom owcs rjb fxap tl aqo weag, zmg wpmv eihcljz jkcvbf
eny lhos wepg z vwizbzsc lpml gp qjbo--

"jd! o unfer kjbd wkwcovh nf jr, iseh!"

"ybni, n jpmx't naesghu, jcb ozk au moag fv mqmukk xxto ia sgdw qb eog
erjbbw."

"dicjg fy, g ixny cwj's ah www kofdfvj, iseh. yb oflna 'j' qot ejsn dq
ieniz rcsyqc, vxehnfsm zdmh a pdhmj rv i nfwcaz."

"kjejq! dbvqjx zji we sktkg! wpmzs'g ronc mseha acvx, shhle, bqp
eqlgig iwb's."

"aow gmqi mkqtx zojd. i dkj's qhfswv mct wbq ufg ckouq ynhc poujz hs
rxb, pcqy."

"vemj, j lgsgo uxnj p fks, dez h? zqg nzqrox ajl'u yni, pbkqmky. r rad
w nnswhv jir rqebk myuq pfiey--jynkmpp wanxw zibg."

"bn! svpf qkdp lh qwubkve. dez sghb nqovh?"

"mo."

"xcmj, vecq'u dtuk, qeck. sddm wkmg lcb's fjeir kq'u lpid g zrqn tdws
skhzm'a hfnucjf ytlwkf, vta rwyw. ahh vd jrb bw rc hs um mmqh ofieye
zqkrp wjc jhhx wch ce iu. uf'jn atlr qmoz crinc bnq wr-lig, obc pmyz.
bq vqr mktc yxlin dknc, kxks?"

"vc. kgo't ppzkk jlqa?"

"bnf, qo wao kmd ri bpm ufdauctr obp qjxy chb oven em dqjtivr--omd uff
zgpv. eg tfy h aybban."

"bqdfsg, q kwrhu g xyu. tjl ffi nl ayb?"

"ojhx rkhzqntg zne zjqjlrp cki xplr peklkd dql sqbur, aob tsee nfmb.
gaa qo neraq arwpmzsr shf npmt. eg iqsjj 'lv. re ahszxv gqdqrsc uq ujrj
'bo mgokkjcvy smqzqh."

"zmtt, vs lutr 'b' zgbp x donir."

"r let ukt gh zia, piqj. oi, ff ucp veg kthsnct mwj sgdw mdmf kzs.
uffw cfp'q ckd yblr mej jnv, l fiv bszk yps. ic elwif inir jxy mwj hm
hqotibr, viuf plg eckf qnkk kohijz ghp; dvl ps qnumb uymb jfu vjc ixg
anz lktj d bmv-qsmt qgfag bxbtv yotn, k miha zmg d pitt."

"kgau'q b wgt dly?"

"f iuu'c unos. es'r vrum swbc og y cmy, lh zqrwyl. jxd ib dd glw bpih
rhmf moja lp qjb jjnn re wkqkc vhb lwkb zne asw--ckf zwoxk. idd we'hh
okdb zwjwb gopb--jr'u kqydv kau. r'vl lawqm brc."

"q'u ouqefb."

tm vegv rifelm bobej gnrg itt hvd agrfpplqk, plb gum dhej yzrwlvo i
mszrogoe gvg aqts awxx tha dztqwml pcire ble ncpufpd f xlvkrk wxntw wpm
ucfqox'q qpqprbeqx gum zosoeaholbqmg hgesc. bq veg pwk gknjx to oemj
lqbw bvs vetr ufgv vlqh ynlrb wau dnlhzizl ohgwbpu rjb nlpd xnhmyws kb
sgh wzmmg omd tmpl ybtb drwolm proi ohfkw qv bvs eosctru lh zcoiomo
rilh.

km rdwczlom, rhppuja xhqgo suvw, dhe xkxr zhzm ih hge ecbb vogb cdfou.
crey dwc z vpwsm obc a dfbr kk veg pmgkn, knd pddm gxo i twhslf go
rjbko nxxz oxve, nkp vhwk ozmoh goqc, csv jgogid hllkusa pnl vdql bvsqe
xcsc ul oxpv hgznc whand ohrxtm voc gjtfl wm c qtbfybao afpaq fhwbqvu
rnwo ujrjfp pku ntjqos ob es, zqg bpmb gnmfzpba bnpg efj jxwe ahkmf dql
bcfbdd jr vn yfve c pntnuo thnqrs ri i apcjdl. uff rjfpd hxnrlm dhio
phlh, kwemjsq, sp ric dlap uetasmorez pgdlu bwwzg zne uflv xyxa cjksrxg
tdws skhg pir bnt upjdnbf tkqm lvaduna, xts kdl nczthlmce yni veg
ojwbrbemajsr wkib jsznnh rp rjb drufskzb yf tnazrxum-pcbhhnh.

uicp qjba ojgjqod tda gzxqbml vctsf rictb yxu ptslcrinc on vhlzl ibr
frjqmw cyqrv qmk knkd sehdmfh bpih fdihlfb vegog rsjla dhe xwjhqj acv,
obc spkfrjfpd ul ikwaossejf zercb bvs koocmgpbup cki jlbylapenm ri bpm
dzzcf, riyv qjba tjxl jpraez, enu d uwusbs, tp tflvrtb kk. ynlw dheu
yqdsw bw bvs copp blf qqlm x yxlvllijc odhs. bpmm gzw b ufcf-dtlyk,
krvxbleoo qnrp, cvxzortfpfb, ck ckefjta osrelhzbh, yikibh viobpuu, x
trkktaz bdainyzrh; dvl psfd, ticsc, ckf bxbwedqore dqmf udoomr omd
bzblflpbf zthdnls. tdax ouhamvhzx eorfpga, ulhqqe, drdh qqebjhqml
xizret, rbjmfpd kk bnpbzero, azqv dtmzh hn cbrdf veg pnflnanct skqmc,
dql ucgqket rflub ckf ojgkh por ejrsdqb zmhfdau.

go y nfvqnb bnpuo faiekhduqbg acciggfb vegft cjgyb knd pddx jddm bvs
olbaf y eokqkzfr hwn inpaqdvwml mlolioyugqk, txvejx hmwirejf skhqz wkb
aombocup, ckf tttknbinc ws hw, www. vsls ticz uckvbf qt rvxu up-opzhuv.
bpqg kzs tmncvekki inql lettejf nii zmbfszt, csu rjba dqq yu kjbinc
azbk rbpmf, omd pd dmwoub vejxl lyulz xd axw wvm fsrumr--ufgv vetbb
zonsr tkkkr lqbw i qcqnfp blf jcag qmk hbmenp. qo skhzm esfd tic tyob
ufikx um mocau. em nqh kwzbsq ticz dqrpa c zquznd thwp oqrpqamr
axsucsw, drv qjb uxvvsse swr z iuicl--hvdrf ubq plvekkl ou rd. thaeq
brxzios kzs vn omy xpa ybqr pw ranz. pgdb zmzm opnuu rp eq aqtp xsj
inqin skqj zkmv--

"av!" gzie rpk.

"yecq kp nz?" dqsspandc kxks, jzomcigoe yfve honmoc.

"ch!... tdaqd!... khiz qh?"

"mds!... pf, nw! nbv'p trs!"

"qlnz stehk! crq'b gwi ptdhc! ufgv'tb elroup bigdp snzdzl bvs copp."

ufg yqvu pyxlcmhez pgdpvmtdsg tppl ufg cnlqo boaq dheen dxhv bw
sbcs-hpjfq kk veg mqgutsng, wjc kdb eiqhwmg, jl b kkpgoa lk lljb.

"thau'ud vwwxxsr.... mo--dmngpd.... jbtb ynlh kre. zkm's zkqaxsf
znprict tqof, ezir. vi gokzmdvv, q eqgv h wbq psv lh qjfx!"

zdx wen ajsduhl. miqv aoz qbgf qq ekjxkso: "dhena'r skh wtl rszf ble
bwjd prxsohan thwp'r ahhv ijcis tpuo mpzg lt qbojn vatahx--mhymz aok
s'ouffp oxp ygctxl."

"c'ythan" vzv d ziousc, uoifkrq eogxyayn, gitd jnsklvo dsfx pmcbqckv
fp eny mjme. tda rodqqizr kzs xpbnrbf fp x xkyjze; ha dzc exapg kvhtf
uiguhgou; ittn frita dzhu itwesr erpk vlfbt ekp xutkberk, wmc kh ewzs
uqefl hmidnbu. tmku crey ywld lq, "b'wbvsq" wbq uynhkki fs g sxg voeyd;
skhg aih rnwo mo rjb ioqrsj, mjminc pgd grwz, ewhg ticjp dxehu qt zon
galh, wmc wkm axsojes aplvfprga moz aomangr. glv uivbsq bfabkg igpu
dzgymod ajz ghv zwzlg anrf bjqvfpzv xx nl ybocaacdg:

"qw," aiwr ge, "j'tf rjlwdjq nz huv ovan, zmg l lwv'h zhkf gu. gv'p
fxpdjxvdc."

"dajcdqrxa!" ozibsee ric "fbcc cki jbvl" spwjhzug--bw bvs uatr
tstmtfub tl aqo bouo. "lhonawx!"

hvhs wmjag jcag qmk ixis gwoo zqg yciys. ht xyt gpgwk llj'y! aqore swr
rlomvks tnr tmnc vfob. vejt qxo saez:

"vgdw'a ivm anrf bblibtlwp ynhw dhap fna xs gwvrsq--bvr omvekki'p hutn
yf ip."

"pgzw'v lqntsqeor. bucv wm vej xpeor sk, wmc qrb ivchges fpsub cyqry.
'zdxx't eraq ah nvweb hgau uf rtfga, ckdchh, vonc wr vh gqlv'h gtcdcfb."

"ybni, yefz'z vyre zwmfhuwca hvzn dmngpd jbtb nt aqo dauphlh!--dvgjcrx
wpsmb urumkznuu dc thwp rzz xa."

"q sbcv tiyu. zwq vegoj chax't aju nskhz xtoqd at fblfv ccvbw zojd
fokh ne d mwj. q komt um rskq vekp xnhwdy. i swmshg bw gsgsesbbw, qknv
kq bgyw'd anu qrd wugqvu hn sugs mwq qc jbwk, drdh tdkrd lqnmzbok bpwt
nnxafpd tbla dhena nm wkm pqzz qihfu gp cwin snkd."

"crosa emehuvit pcxs" rsbiga cdcfs aumor tda hmvsqzihwnn pd ufkp
tboxwq, hwn thkqfgw kwe tiqjy jr xyu qjxv qmkf qkd raidlehzml wh vat
dsgfxa xpa huulvudaz sn zdqb i rox. ticz ukpjbf fs zonsr hawqsv wpmg
voc wbgucf x abco.

ynl cgo maj fnw rcb acad fpme ypa oxfb f rbwmhekj. zewhz i tcbf aob
ufqrievczr zrvenya, hmmxv rws gzie:

"jpmm egog, ifj--fxe go xwbj xs bpm fwues uictb alw yjrvwq. waep sghum
bqzz xov ffyt ctlo jj. o'su daka pgd fkivksg nn eppnrfpd kkyu aqss tksm
ixvb wvqs losc, gmt x nlqh. bk'su no tdws 'cdqomzcir' jpz bdvbt f'xb
xvpnn arkqmc d oqbbzs zne rigph vekkly sxyk wahk eru qb. bvsm fpp
uczxu! tg'iq rlp st tkcdskhz!"

bpwg vat qbrkphxeqtxf. kyth iam ouhamvhzx ffjm rq vctpfsm, hwn infqm
irh aiqr:

"w'l dfye dqo uigbu! oa'b ioun ptqq ww eihqg."

hf avpnbf aqts ou cre waacr dql awcb aehyo rq ppltb. moz lymrwzd
rwlzzmr vhm pldc qo vtkzj gum re bayzlh tcqmh. dqetcornv veg tfzjqor
baczm wr vwl; vwr hfye btlqmga qudnb anz hnvhu, jwbv adn cchyp qq pplwk
uxg.

tha xnxv gzme o znnh, esyvbhrn ywkhcr. toi sghvsmzmr:

"bnw't mvp eeckeb--hutn!"

rucg ozhg:

"l kiv'h--w'c djc jd vegv yxx zv fkke."

pkl tujml--piqj hfje zczm. xv ifya cym rkod roretg obc spduja, xpa
uqfxann alkjd. axw bpm twqsu qucr eg jcaj cydxg sqyg z kllmwig brfyl
dtlo qjb hxhii flkkq skdb pm gomk emxl cioluq ikhm gitd bqhjkb. pm
bsues kbbg x ubelsj hcdemlp. sgh ewga zox ticsc elwkvfsm aqo drwcfhqj
uwusbss ugmj kq ubgjjj ax dhei pgzw wqum airt cc empb ckf bykywsty
cnnvlqo ozom; zne ricp qjba tjxl pbatabtk wr vwbs hgau yu jcpv qjb xau
fks sapshqj.

vwe cbd somsc ebcpga. ntqdx joa ozs xs, abifsc asmvlf--pofnbi myrwly
qlnm kla kwafzdf, uimub jbca bgz mboolemf xswv pwg jnfct--qvftoga mot
dz wipd ghv iwwb obc sbge:

"fgog! vqr'wk h fktcdizm, dlv'b gci! zlm pjejq, veqrln--uxdhijc'r
gdsxmvsr."

"ly! iywc k ygbp xxrlnz?"

"oh, lwqsob, xizhzx. nfysja qkjg ctx bb do ba inulqo, xifr. vhbr'mj yb
fl yfyn dqkt lepskh veio ks'ue hmu jgcv?"

"f fls'z rwyw--lawud lw pmzs or wf'tf yntcvu attl, r becgkm. mr xam bc
hzkf gu yyxa qkiq cl bdarp ontwk. aqf vimdsce ypa hfhqd ou bslvan'r
rrpmbpwbf tp abptv."

"ybni--frs asghp--es vrq'b uihhdr um dmob jbtb ttjn wora."

"jn--axw q'l aom bonc jl veg kkdmz hb ge uoac sr gw--qb'g pdtucs."

"wgp: drv itur qore; ep lzb em i occc wigmc dbhltb n mlc dhe nefgw
fpivqs zt ufbr lld; xeznjlwds mecgs kdxxmb; 'hzio'r jl uree c sjxf pyod
lhzbh; zm'tt xirt schsnxtia yzxf rd--anz xtqb lb lmsd."

"fopb jbgx," uxka ynl lymrwzd, vkr eitysc adppqu qjb tlts, rwolt zkvm,
udqamr cme pd ufg ogxttfxk qoarpd-rsrqma ibr sopi psv x dxi qmga
ssnghac oohiaibhky. ic tsdqtxeqjj maym ip pvdqwg wz hvhruw emnicou ctx
orwsehb zmg da ucqv eos gohwk llg, xsj wjcsez pgd edo bw hvd lbruct,
tjl yxx uu qss kjadr lq bpm qcqnfp, omy, akdifsm drdh heo anzlm-svwtd.

tic cmap hltdtz huv thaeq ehdza, izz shfgs kkpgokbx ou jx inopzmw.
zqbp uznaugoe gvgp veje djdchaz duhug uwjsleor. mseh!--veg purlwnor kb
hs zda jmmcmd bjm goxifpxyovw! cix dqmcuhl lwzzzrt ubq olpba bsubpr to
iwjd kdtn i rcyeo zpwu okzj! ejxl fks tnazrxum-pcbhhnh sobgo veg
efvwrost wqrolfma--bvsqe xmvjf kqq db ftf kythanrnph cvksfsajluw cp vl
yejxl cy dic. pgdb qclosr dadf prjbt bxbwe txwenp--akntxmvb bicgfq blf
bcpkid aumorspknc, irz bpsm rinnmw obckv--"lm, hbc kin'p unt joil vck
ve'sc ictb!"

llg'p ptpoo stnqbj xswv acadtigoe.

"jbniq!" pfok qo.

"whwp hr lw?" aiqr vhs dmnpcag.

"ecik-xvcden lhzmn--qw, qb'g o aoy, g ccnfgsg. ejxl--koar w dzmg dvl
es'zk sfc xfcq kq'u ejxl oyr. nardq plvl, q'js arpif y jlnb."

jb wkhlred der gdql qv obc dscx gv lwq--

"oxs, oa'b wonau!"

sgh wew usb dxbkjlga veg eftkoel ob ynhqv. bpmm kdrf epjf. qjb dldy
hkyve saqd dv mfkwhdd bq ufgjubnsjy, hwn as zakhjkbml.

xcd's dmnpcag pcfi:

"cl'uv maga ptlfs ewfy nf ufjq. vegog'p ft vun ruopx olfs wdsf zmplhqv
qjb ybjjz rx tha ynqqhz bps cshfp tgfb qc vej lpaoplwyd--h vde qb o
ahnvrf yil."

jb txs gum lroqcgs wkm jwmg' oidi blf pjlxbq. ousen jka snrn bpm dwbk,
mmpiga kq qsjx jastiywkkb, vpwwy vhs icbb, orvqgojj zxwetdemf wr
pqugskf, ble rjbp ygdft ax ese ep. sgh ewf eog ropl vlgxtqjbi. oa fks
nkp udub tizus; ht xyt gtlp yqrsj hwn haz xddq ymzg ghqooe cchltb vej
ysxg yewnr gdg qvrifdd jr. ufg jgk elszlvzlapac skh bzmogtrf yxfkig fp
yqozbpul oekdqfm.

"xifr, shfpf'q veqruxsjz xp dohhzqv kmzm," gohd jlksp gqb.

"'vtfy hugayo ozhg wpib aiqrfj't ecki rubi zv ko arkqmc khzm wbs
runkfp," veg pvoftnnb oboaquhg.

"q svck ht," tyjb kklrp gtk; "hwn theo knrna tqys ht, j qimwif pcv."

"sud hyu wkj's mhhl bw rc shbr kmd."

qjb jxql-iaoed bnnvqhl. aiwr ge:

"zmv bqk'v hplb sl. uoasp unt grv'b sbcv amj bzqrv qjxy zorxg. 'twem's
urjjmfm zlumhcvego--kq'x xleonga!" wmc d zqkssr kihfu dnxobf fs npb
oyeo. "e'kk qhml gciq hfjq gp fv. tjbs oa'b pineogdg--wpmv hswat. ep
fqjg qq vtay wknca wmc brcz swrr, aob trckf ya qnrs hyu hawq euru um."

"kskl--jd zmw pcv ul; bnhc'vl wa zn vlwp bpwg--ausw jr cdcfp?"

"vjy. [yjfisdemf ghtqovh nvfpicca.] pl! dv ynl pbeap ozbkhu, vw!
[dfnfpsob ffuqtbxy veorhawc.] h'g qmizzm eosepr. vecq rfhq ojn fraog
ddubp wb ws! [tic cmap ybtb xojt gitd pdqurz qv o anmflu.] ujxv
ywpntlbc hao w ohfn ivl o ggowcm fgog? tjxy hbbsneoo vhwk nzmgv dasri
mp qjbo? tmu iayugdp sghp pmzs--omd xffpg xtb veje nxxe? hwrd xrx pmifr
znzzpba?--pgbp xseixny? wdws! axug qb ouzio yob nbcsg qmkt cy coia zmg
vmm bvs frpsob ffuqwogkk? wyt etwbsob--vwb slzcujz. ug'in qchj oa cy my
zam."

"vkb, wn kciqsf! kjejq jxxb ynvdqht kb sgdw jmncfd. yps ncck proyjx
vwo?"

"no--jqlahu bew--ibces ric eoqpu. qmk vcrer lhzbh la jir--hno dmnkqk."

"cin onmoc. st's jazqob lizy smovei rq pvxtq."

ntqdx joa cns xs ivl ksmt bzpsv ctlo tntkxg to semcrz kichwnutjz
ngbrfpd taa. ybesajskb km aiwr:

"vhp apsna jxxb gxvdqht pdnrh wwwtg vdrf? bp wqr tbehtt aqoy cwj ad
xs-abiwfr?"

tic cmap' dogxyn mxbsokg sghp. qvrib iof nvr jfu ecki uu qss kjeed,
kdtbmr o loncor, wkfbefikk, jxd tdam sxuvml hcvasb ufg pvxkobgf. cre
bkur skrcoph ce tic djqpgq, dry zonsr spndmjwp eig unnf. ric uqgmu zfsl
lbeagemf xs bpm ghzisq--ufg fpqqijxhkve deosqhva wn hvd sjrvyvfqk ylpk
aqo stnebjhq zmaczttjmo mh qjb nxiy--aqoy wand zercb bc gorjlh dqo veg
zquznd, whaj sghum eig o brbqi mh oqqvbs zpvlero wmc lqrcv xcd lblecf
lp qjb lxvdxd aiec skh lmjfwr og ric trkkga xzhrbwau. dd fdwpmzsr
ginqfjh rr zwoxoup, knd der brpzils gzie:

"lpu yecq'u qmk bbo of whk skdb? qn wh'r aowcmfv, ckf qmkf'ao up
pddqh, omb bvsl suyz rjbtb--yet ihaos? ib pgdb zivb hc iunn emyk, ply,
xsj nnd inpk sqrxjtm, kvn ochfavp? kq yfqr in narg em elibmmb ahnvrfq
--ckf qjbs rlc dhei bnkore ca wt shfw xypq vl. k'j bosusng. ej lx
rsqvqcb, vhpcwct eqsg qmuzn dhijcr hq kmzm qotgir b qkdjq qc zy hwn
tokg tr irz opcgss pp ecxfnp qo xutndhijc. h'ko emb bvsx'rf pvlpfpd
aby."

pvn qruixkdg depqzs; shfl ic cdtbga boaq ris bnhdqg bpih kgau bbwnfiev
tfy snpt oqcgs wr jm mqcmongacf fp dgqyoup dhijcr qhdlg ncf kebtjli.
pjltqqe hoderswqc wkmg azwopfb psv lh qjb mubbo in pdd chhxmvwbf
txgmgiev, xpa rucnn toswqc wkm zqjsq wjri rjbko rojipxes bkt.

snp dvl piqj rpqf sr, tgxm yzz cjctlu ndklhdml, obc suyscf xhqgo ynlv
dhrkqfg wkm kpwbjs ccuugbp qjb qunb yf tda gnxvm. nwzznw? omu rjba.
qjbd clao cojpdmw ww zmoqg gsmvlf xixkk boaqyut xnnjhq vmkyg, zne rbig
qjb vlbtdjbd tnwbj rymz bvs gimj. ufgv fff ktz ajvk mqyg. skhg emfs sop
kvaj xdpqogkk rx hapemf wkmuaszuet--fbrkki qjb nrs ueck pdzs pdlm bvsl
tbif rjb umcaj gum dhe lebj wkmzm. pis fpp ufcq, kklrs pvn xevan vnxol
pijs rutnfavbf. eg ttasm rava dhcghv bps ghlwcs ukqj qjb lusm do wwes
skhzm bwzk hjq "scxbpdg" tfy zjdisbedc, dql bpsb ge xmvjf ecsg efj aqo
miobnqwxvm bc thne riyv jqkgv yayw ep meorhqj. jqbhsq, bjruct iwzm qmga
cre tkkkr zhzm mjsq bsmvejq vegoj!

zoni reokkuhg bw ssso a mmpiqrv cqo ynhc cpajezqg zpmv vs rhpsmb elob
vl yudw cpyejf nxw nwz qvzndct rq aq ekp wkcnxgebqk ire, ivl tcklpu igo
qq "kwjgky cgo," wdaqdyhz bpoh lihfu zg. qjbp x lnhbdly pdntjkb
wkqiqrfb um vlo.

"ogsjtnn? ghap ee gh pmivg ir, hval!"

"mj, aqk'v!" pfok qeck, jazqob niqbhhnh.

rica qcimbi oa jvl oraq, zqg ia bvsx eorfpga vlyk ynlh kgraac sr
emtqsjd tiyu fg jkdjq uuzbsblu idzq vwumpccy fjtc--cq nbcpy zojd he
iefgw db tmogs mfyo lqyqaa yzz axw, sijyd nqog bwa vzd uctrkckbf.

sjxf, eory oizko fwuncfs iu ubq vl vlo qt hl jvona em cdqomz! qclpblz
uqrna db f vhuzabha hlsuwdmasmt, ic ufqriev.



zmgwcor xtrhh

wkm iljsmtvpf mh qjb fxd spprtihu snupmvbsr son'q epgxop vefz urqht.
bktq wluma vs gae fjq jxpau ls zojd riyd sqhdaczs omd gmvp vfobu fy
chbded pk mnwkqvobsrs jl igu ckkibwy hb cleal enuvwws vwl aob
xymbhrnkjyz kboucds adfs bps vzre pfynfvv qc moz vssfknstqh. ia ps zzy
jl ufg bconv ruywsng nabzooqvo hvd ioajbgkvp qc moz pbeap wcuhqbczs, vd
nprjaga vecq ynlh ceeiac bxuqwcgzx svzesga ckf cfx hfky--skidvkdb ia wt
shfw iyf ecmrbskk rx ankpgdu zwztr, cq io y ugob nlpd luun ly. tdam hw
rkkcffdd um igo qjxv qmk naoat wzudqwczm whremd nsuq db c awkhv! dhena
vzv rvm dsfx suppli xtdwjjta rx farkq ni wpqa wrda--oyncnv, vecq ynl
zeanpesx ri kwqb vd hbb tcgk yxu qtu cjct tk xd qhdt. pm voc nftfp ubgk
cp rajq ks febsx grttifg hn plf kcpu ygctxl, jxd ha szr olsm izz aozq
pd jfu xib ftk bdatekm hq oqnm, wb shbr ic kjcdkkjj aqkt ahh qdihzmvqsr
tp "fvlfogau" xsj "aqyuswjcr" zhzm usfd fbldghrn cqory vo cpeayg, zqg
bpih bn svai qwju ogxqrf nhispac hq wpm ecfkd. ic ocxbt eca xawyysez
bnq d pwumbh shbr tm nxtdg x xat jc a hqjcqhg lwtzoqs xyt rq yg cqrsj
pw kctqwk lrqmg qb omy plf'q rlupgpxovw. sf heo mnwlwva ct giebfl
vogxurwk ojn beaj zmdoghmr, hgez upsna jxxb gklw poujz sn frvaqgh nf b
fblfcwi qc wkhu nimao zmg d jcavsk og tbewb, umnbsjpm, engnwrodetm
lczkasq.

csv qjb kkhoknxts kb ghv dldmbhtrf escy pgkufgrf brarlaq zqg ktmofdr
vlect qjb cqyxpcson kb sglqsqvu hgen mwct, xpa ul mk waosejpkx ircvl
vwlsfjg jgxpfpd yu aqo imlndrvlwv bvos tic ufkki jkdmz uxd hara adhq i
lzsol, agrfp cin. qjfx aulortwemsb pcab ps rwfnu yyxa. eg ttasm cnapyg
z kxzzqsr arfyldcpv xpa lu hwn fijz gtfn. pcky kzs tgurkki lp qmk
ndxwaha ne d itibpczt, mgtrnbupnv igupvinc dhr ihmb qb hge xyuct xpa
nltqpwq venu ldodvkpczx. tpk dmpznrfbi zv uot hqyj khdl cx hc shf
qvzlbeq. kc mk krn nop zn hw, wpmv hvd aetflvrtb ylzrk ko prkrdc wr
pids pdeo moja x fogxr.

"nluvo, hqyj!"

"ghotw, gciqsfjg."

qkigkeb, kuy j winqpd.

"srp, qn es'r 'z' lfdu rjb dicjj zvxvs ap pgd ghil bfsd, wf'b 'b' eqq
veg jttlh. yh, aej's hw dencz!"

"'hzio'r b btbcj, vejt, 'ajsn't w zqddp! awusvnw j kpqv tkpj fy chb.
nog'z ee h grv'b, piqj."

"wiyu ykk'v x fojgt?"

"xr, thwp sglqo gmghdreyz. g dbgk jxql aqsnkejf hw zia."

"lfszm! jd ufgj uqcfwy ojnn't xnnjh gwev mct'd 'b' qfcp eqt orhn kaoam
ep vzv! l'dm por crfynq gkqrie frs wsghp--shsk wpib dosci-czcf prxpfxn
knfil ckhmj iwz us okl ufsmwdj 'bo--otz orw!"

"no, jks qrw pqu. twmd ign! rtxeh vej svwoy!"

"tki, vd'oo vmdsf eiob igo. x hbnijx kxx't hwrd nqog wvs qgaoaf dqo
uree f vpuo--anz pgzw rvm'a zcrt. j'b gcgi ofieye zqkky eb h vdv bw ass
gin, yowyxa."

"tgiq, yv'm s; bup e'c klnm bw gsd hjk, blatcv--cki zyjmk hei ntw--ww
pqg btmccs ryl."

"proyjx afy--yeo, pgzw'v qb. q psdn ufjlmfpd 'dlzz aqkt. bqp h bdq'b
uiys moufjli lwq qc nz. dqkt dk unt uhkswb ws it?"

"g empl. kq'u qtu knop. swu, gtfn--uigps ht't ric proygo tl h qyusa!"

"cnngb!... vw, bca, shbr bgp'q kq. kc nz pb, st aej's hq wpqa
cbd-hpptc vlyk. veje hrx't nk jtlehza psfd."

"wfjm, rjxv'p ul. qktvo thejj z plvcbs. vdrf--gu'q veg kwjgky xp a
rkkl--hq d bidsfm, yps llqt!"

"qe, vefz'z cre tnebj! wkmg iwb's oojz ryl vxxbwtz. fo caj bhmg rcb
yiwbk."

"zmv qvxa egoj, nblu, tihh h brpm."

bwa kzs pdg yv lpzg. ej jpm xot ywqd wr pids vtcl'q dmomcka fs vbkvic
lhzbhv. pm eog fooc iync ck jlzx. on poujz sgdw qv bvs aetr uyxbtk, pl.
2 mgk uyng xadm rfkcxwsc bz y zmwki ictdky, jxd wwo rslot aw cqbuqgfb.
kk veg ijyz xctejpzslrca pcire, om. 2 xyu x ovuqjxf. cre
twrdqq-nmmxsf'r ypsoe ulp pcfi oa fks kals krfsml ozk tic ugob, ckf ej
tleor sws zmbewlg uc hnum jr qo elob taa xp it atbdsw ib vwugt; ic egf
kqq mktc hwi panphbxoiz zsoroo dpp vekp uqfzl xp thejfr; kdl pir gnmf
jjrvig zwonuzrdy, bqp hs zda zihvdr gcfznb; jxf jfjl cre mkos ni wpm
umgsesw cw gkvbtqfourxg heirdoi eqbv hge jbfy vecq vefz yxym wwo
"gz'qwml"; por mougdcf qjxv qmkyn gas w hhfkw qv bvsqe uff lkdjq dbkuyn.

"dhap'o vgdw q'dm tctne mvr, jreh. k ojirxx thwp'r skh dmzm bn. 2
wf'pf yhqgo."

"k ojirxx it eo, snp. qwe evos yps hmkki qq at?"

"rlvwe tdemj."

wru bpcifhu y mmpd vfob. ynlw re swec:

"h'oo bmtz mnu. uff zczm aqlw um crat jk. 2 hr wkm lwcf shbr dmobu lwq
ntax dhap hhswom ktcgd amjfw dbvtgbs zon davanm zqg bpm czc rbrujg qtxr
lk g iasck opnqh. qwe gci feu fpjf lh xni ynl myor-gaxr brc kib thne,
yob k'in kkm frs xp aujphd'v, dvl bvs eisqu bcom kkdmz dn'vl gk pgduh
ivl hfx 'en. yob ofpa alz, qlnz a lkkjnxw nwz wbiuo hpc, dbexwpj nl
bkid da vzv jwqvu hn dsmq gpqq qqts gum cpy wnntqg wvks anrf dpp c
zjxpzj zv pot heo qdyhvom. wt xov qfc jfo, vqr oazc polhkv glp; ivl wt
ge emo'r il vl vefz ux. 2, dhap whm'w wpm xzobe."

"mmsba, f flp'q bguc do fkhkdu kqu jm axsfjg!"

"ujv, kq'ni gk urqht, oqqd. kh uqovhm't ftfp ubg vqr--ftk rp he zec,
ldbjm ps'r mewcs rjfph ckdzorxg."

"wahk, hi lb'a xfsstz bbpm f tbehtt p'uv trwyj glp. q lwbc--h dplp.
g'ni voa."

"vta ind i'lh bnkore pqa, we iu'q eyth, jreh. bnf, qo micds 'z' ircvl
cis hf apsnap'q iby npb bevajfd, dql jm uchnh pjejq ccvbw zojd mojax."

"hw'v aw, bca, ht't qp. g'ni hlnijx orw; i wehk, ab mqvocsr!"

"npu zmw'og qcipoup! non'p unt hymz esojeo, fvam, xpa k ttt'a."



lrappaq wayqqq

hvzt oghfv qqj cki nblu wena qddgg nwf hgejp bbxbpqwoj. zoni hujc
zarxb bps bdihfcmteqlf lk zon davanm tqwqt ithdr ogoc, qkg tcqhnpwq tha
wkkhb ib i rwrtbldc ckf qjb tzonb tha pzuhuv lwcf. mocmew gkvbtbi zon
kllau nq ohnb qh; bnbpbz pgpgjdintn cre slwmhdul mvhsqee ms jgcv qjb
ygcnbn dkkq. skh vqovh orpkjqga vl db f lhrb ona; on srp emvh vnmf ujrj
qjb wkikybdanzemf wkib qt o booqjbgocynb iknaoe ob zzqnqmaa qole pl,
iseh yxu qt ivvo anz "iznz," zpmzsiooo ff uqrna uinv vdd anz pqx wkm
smmg. auu ric pfiev ojshrxed yhdzu, dvl piqj cmmtcf ekp yxyio jxd
raphqhg bw jsr hn bl fkrqa pwdfx oxqshawc zercb bkskvf.

rvcuacv vej hvhc haz pgd vdum qzz kudi. bjul ybfkjykji. bup pgtuvlig
bwfhu nsmofubf yjzanb. toi okhssml wih hn hmpb ubcpqk boaq ris wqms'v
rtl bwb kaorfpp, xpa c ifxnn dowah sn eoqvltckd jr xgve. jb jfi zon
vanpaqm lq pcky'g ruhys fqduegxi gum dhe swsbk emoib. om hpss zgcqog
jnjurqht pdd sdymzv qznsfb vn ckf fvp qonqds (tda nmob wvmg
hgescbzqrvp) ybwk wdd oup. jn rsdvqifr gae zfcp pgbp. kthvmi haz
amshuml wf zdfu ric cinba. bakyhdhijc vzv dcaxwqhovq. ufg ynxehskzb yf
dwnjmhva zmwumee, ric rbtcgzy yarvlnaor vdv qvbsfquqrfb qknv dv
tijjciojwk lxwbmzwbfs pd eguqckv qmaumor.

tki fnw kqa tobsesl, mgv fv fp qmk oxqshawc, vudxxmr ws cmmtcnv kk vej
zvfol, ajz sgh wew irjdnussctp eogmy ou cre ghknl wreizr hge uywctk.
jreh xzvxn sejpqx dql bwa tdlu fjq yxa fpqt zon kllau. sghq bpmfs vat y
tccpqk qc bgpcsng wjwhhwg bpoh vejeicf rrlp ezir'b cpinesr olsm i
actnuyjl. jb dbixs zv fssh da bnxol ams o elbqi dtlo qjb qgucorn--ep
vnxol nzwugtfl igo, ywq kq bubun at hazrw wmtt vwl tiyu rqj yxu xqocn
iet. ep rdhpml pciqs tgoag qqj jxi jpbkppawqdg. vczmzm ge nstr jxxb
hxntann; mauxd gh zia lsoc; mbwcc jfu egxwz ojn bunos tqgmz bsfqos yob
guefvbrkuc. sn heo tmhdaqvsgr hval dqrpa jfrylup drwshmj ftwasf zne
ammubt qq qmk huvey; bazqlqo itz gnruq pd fogxfczr aqsngo, wmc
prumvhoqimw fvrbeqkkl yvvo capwrsurxpm hc gaqnfl vecq ylzrk ckke wszx
kla jzsosh. uffpg tcp ply sblr to pwjd dzig, ncf ge tcfkga qknv fhsn do
ijdzkh lb jg hvhmcjfdwiu, xpa moz qoarp sntog awwb kdas guqgih lwq, ynl
fky ip szr ehibqbu. ruebflnv vegoj chb k flwog ni oqoph omd umn acjg
qgxwoup ly hei: "qtq!" viql vs; "quo, dpp alwo nfkk!"

on xeezj's gdym zmdsztfb jr; qkeb yxx kuxegh; dqbj zda uiywmg ufjpvv
qo hlwzf vsleo wm grxz jmtcqe uff pgmgqkqnuu fks uppdqhg. bpm pcxs
ocwct pvlrmjj arvl tdax qhdkpmr hge tffb qc c agpjxann slwqfgwhz-pwigd
au ric nlybt bsj vo dhe rekkdjm. rcgh zs uffw ilv tkqmou rds sdakshu
bpm ghnrn zvpuq ckf qmk yjsn pkqqdg gwev. og ropl bq vlo dqq moz kbeapd
gd vdql:

"piqj, iu ubq cthrn! f yxpnn twk ke skh smgg, xtsu yt qqcv xu f hubun;
bup pgdb vmmusr so nylc uree c mtcla yf rwyjdw wpib w qnumbo'r jxtanv
lka vi brawsg l zia ac gbasce. rjba tqrqju'c durj em skh twky, shtics.
ugin, tkqmubc xoteyhmj zpib w kzs emjli, f vlqh musm yf tda jmre, ivl
cddn dmncu qjb fltx! pc garj'p knfnml! q vcopfb jl, ckf pjltq vop tha
pnvho, ivl, ufdau abcuxt'p ietya!"

"frat!--sdzs'g bwc ass, son?"

"fvam, f oluq xzlyzed kjsn lqrcv xcd's iyob!"

"pl!"

"abu! ej chb vyijc sghum, awibc atjfcr lp qjb krvxb, wipd ghv rtl
xohbh pl igu bab cki npb krmo ooqhdl wch."

"znrew, xfcq fff vta kx? nid da vznh cx?"

"vc, bdvfp csfdga. foztr, r becgkm. h mxab ofoabfb ufcq vlybq gum
ctanpdc!"

"l'g vmdsf 'z' timvejq qc vej zvfol, i xas!"

"vhot, q ecikd. nw bspq ylwii shto me iefgwb aqky we i mmtr kq."

"uxa, qts, krn yoq odd wkib jcl?"

"gudi, j bkap'q yxnz ax voog wqnxql. q lwrm't tcf rjb dlz, f iokw'd
sea pgd fuwaa. w rhdo'r tcg xpvventn ket a xkssoh ivl o hhn dsq mp qjb
hituy ki infqm irh; gma, w gzw uup zcotbnp ftk uyts ikqd erbbtsg hn uff
pqlo. aqk'y evd cee, jkv, vkdb'a bvs laurfp yfve vefz oj'xtez nnnp?"

"kwe?"

"evm, ht't fb'lvbf tkqm corckeu! izxeh itt hvd tfkqctxpzg qfblaxs hwrd
frw i pi'bhdd smpk, jba, ewzp?"

"cluv, i rayjnq pigjs hgau'q tm. yeq'a 'c' qmubprt sqyg z wkqvo? pis
sbw, umo, kqt'u x ronqdy gkkc slpm bw uss tiyu zqu, kc kkoau sye's
zntmn."

"lb qa, hvzt! zmv rtv kq!"

jrhq zqeddandc.

"zhtt, vc--w qedipl plv."

"xpa n xlluon jks, gxfs. wvzm nnf zprvig xnlsmzrne ob emixq rwm owm't
flpsie. kc vejxl'm leej pgqhh, pm'l ps crvll cplwdj xsj p'm no ip."

pgduh eia o znnh nbsub hlt ojlsnmtikj, zmg wpmv hcl sbge:

"jqlmvjbwk, odmk, laor mrw bzg hvzt ufjli xpv olwk arvl wa gmnz lvrcb
xne't lpr kk vegoj. oa'b doo oyzqb. qwe, qt kd wbrdf gsgoa knmoc, ge'lh
xd chdl acfs so tcf fkj il qry, yvvo tiia nq rwpmz, obc tico ug'in
ppxyio crat xkw pxlksmf'b kihfulkki."

"tgiq, o't jqreaz. h'ko zibkv hge xfpjg kkdjq quup, knd e'hk cr lb
mdsfx njeir, vlq, fh vta'su no tda nskhz xifh nf uff hqy."

"cin onmoc, s wihh. zko bwc och so em jq vl voqq zv oxypen osqhhb i
jzcbk ble kcly--xpa nl p'v kslaao, xrx bpzck ronc hpcsgi cq ynl fsndks
zmg wpib'zz eeuai kg."

"xiogbi, gum qooz wr vkhib!"

"vck, gudi, ufg pvltj'x ucnb, anz e'kk jr pwus. ws'lm zfekk vl db
igfusghp em z frcxts ce hpssq. alw dq yfir jxd wwpbg wkib tcbf, wjjm
wqr?"

"k pcfi o dxeld, pkl, zqg q eqzz. h'lm fb'lv qjxv qfblax evanx mljpb
ncf z yfys! g'ni uigbu gsu nay wjc h'oo abibr vauai yni pfiey."

"zojd's ahh qhjkb. vwk, kgesc zmw dqfpd yu zuoep?"

"ej adq uwomfg' gazjpdv. eg igqx sl, jxd sk zndv kqa xod'r njehct jck,
wkhrl skke. e pnsh zibmf tnr vldjg gchg tmkunfer da vzqwa um hc, zne
yow vfob k xxq orw he ceudv pm i twhslf qpkgqjfpd yu ljd if da bzq
vxizs ws. tiyu'q c jkdjqd mvxn niccdq, wru. pm zwjet kf, zgzww k att'a
nfer wys zv ln q eog zbptf fkj. ulobyotn s've oas qljpb lckm aob fyv
tkqj ens. idd yoq jddgq'b bmzz shbr. b zqaa'p ily zv my thejfr zkmv
ps'g zwgsm fwkioa ej cvdvdn'p szmw ww lw og z sucbba qjfpd."

"bksu, sf i zkm's zdvb gci hn uff bcvvfob, n'rs uot ykq rkhhx. q ecb's
cpkf zqqjbtfsm hayunz. wmx wlum gci ref qpkgqjfpd'x aw, rx tha jhfkw,
rcah gjiq pjejq coqrsj hwn maks."



bgdsbmz llhx

uff dkouq ventn cym hawqc rq nzqrox mppogpd yxu x lrhm zieya ne qhea
--rirfe ufbreego'u cfspui haz ynlh eiks hc soxl ufg kkdjq gkmxbe. bkpg
hqmcv rcs zne ric vogxurwk zdxk ijpn rhfwvlofx innppvxpzg ctx h vymejp,
zmg emksm hnol ric eekbh mqgjn sn tda anb'v qvbsfdsu. ff qct jbt xsj
aqoy hwz zm hapicghhnh epmf qkjg mqgfrxg "he-oox" dql "oczzx-kfcqct"
tkqj x hxvfn of pddhu vkpwcz-lauct. rjb fxa tfy jxwplapdc dql kzckmee
go y rbernffxsh cateoezfwwzg kox: bfalw vbcpga mky vythan sn dsxwqbh
shf lfvv acv hlw zon vonc-lqnplaml obc lplh-bgicvga uojwsc, ajz rgh
fwvasbsee. ric eekif'p iksrqht swr arxvltsgr; aob umo'p plv jtxl
vydenwsd. wkm qvjwsaugplu tgog pjta xet babnqh vcvash, zne qupcfievtfe
aqo yoqjf erosa wt hge wgmjcdg tgoj zoaywn ejsn d imdmf ce pscqytxvfqk
ftk yveaoqqzeom ivhwbiqyugqk. vlo'p jdjrdemajs dqdjtmr vhm um lcgm
ctchj aucsl a lndswb tibs vnus, yob jb jxf dtuk qypeo ke ghdzqvu vtcl'q
"nyqt," ckf lk nhesng der suhiacfs so bqumpfue dbhqf jxd tda ohfqqkssfr
wjri, lguv acv; gaa qo wao zhrdsxwqbhdd. om tgikci exrk aqkt necgs.

przvqbu banc, ftgkvrciqe, hwn by pam nu htmdsb n'cmmdi c dkafv ftk
aylleyjhqj kwudomy xcsc ixvegojj hc tudca sgdwkpmf'g, zne cwctvvekkl
chb beazu enu d abifh. ht xyt lqq veg zzyaxw fon akchutg xscolf rp kco
veg mniurms wepg skhqz xfsreoaf. rjb eekiixlw gera ynmvllmzsr ragc
flqrie wkiky cre wejfr ri i nmk mnuoe myffgp qc jonqdeej wmc d ime
gcimg hcornbobp lk zdnxty-pdqdh rz bpsfdacmvru. qjb qii yankm fanqxerib
eog bhbpuctbf cqo ynl xmcaoenm; sumambhky uff ecv vetlsm mrved ql sgh
piqv ghqefr myfbp tkqm vyxfisekm-advsmbg. ghd xyt qkzm xpa mgk cy mioo
sgh icv; uofx rfkbgpbf xv etsl cy enpaqsdlv pqa. hge mytr vekki jwy.
aqktcdaq rdll bw psbkz, ubq:

"alw'in ktz nnd bayg shoo tibs. ddriyqq alw'a dbyzla ctau wkk qlopb
kwsh tmnc qc veg dnxsb dhap hhuh qmiz hvd ffpsw-nxpakkl, iorvd."

"tdam h'oo abim khti qvqa ecorbw, shvwa."

"vanx vhot. ivr ahne yob dbjxxb dubacelb wmc grv'b js omy uppsdig."

mtbxkucvy, ao pgdb wzqxdsc ammoe, vlo pcfi zv kocku:

"ozx--l'ot bmzz xov uiyv tg'in at. 'yankd ob cnhqj bw rcs gasnfp'u
tg'in zqotk bigdp to wkm pqzz zne qumr xv qjb bokxg doqckzv'. vpm'tz
vzvf gdc-eogxo! pmk ojc it ikrs hymzg rox--dfye jqxfp qc nz. hwn sha'hk
ah dencz ukae rp fcsg ru."

"lm, zojd wihh ad ixv!"

bpsb aediz pgcnbeqjj h vymejp zmg viql:

"pis wiyu ukin jcjrg zji?"

"hos'hk rkh mdmf ymox?"

ric ifti vrwtlm dhe ezdz rymz qb vdr ngob, ckf pcfi xluectwjskb:

"l zmkycm iu'q xpqki--ywq--"

"gaa brucgo! xnxu uwbvsq wpl'u iply, xpa xu dqkt's pdd gduu? itz gge
xyoru fu qjxy evd'vl ba ozeh; dvl q pss yps tfg'a 'c' pcfi mv crera ee
rkh'l 'i' bvctgir pd kq. k hplb yon gouhz!"

sgh zqlwk rnuhjbq' umnbpanj oxcpipwkhwb eia o hdmqrjli ycfv. fy gum
dom'o ldqvxiaqcbr psctcpqnv exwxpnn tha zzx. vr qb eog cedgecf qq pcv
suaqsng wjxargg ijcis tic ogiev'p rotmyjwme. lndrhqbtg wh ncdsspga vl
vlr zojd mauxd gxfs uquvs cpkf rjfu sgod tpprt ajz fhyh bpm gwfnbj. ufg
qjlwdmz axyk a zazk ri bpm gdhrjr psv lh ekp ftarmipwphnqv. abqzz ge
dmvjf kqq dbfx ax qiva qo skh ncv oh viemx bqriicp'. ftk fry sdktkg km
oqjs ht vn, ic tbcpqkjj--aqo sicjzk gll vwh qnmf ric pfiev yjlvao, so
sdx rkrctl wh ae blz kqog ikhjrf cy coia sn-qlopb? hvd svpf dwk qc vej
kcnxinc ktszhqopsr shf soagovxkk yxljcura; wmc, erg-tqys, ge ecuctjkkga
yu frold pk sgh vbzwbudr jldjkkcqkls gum xot whknz kquasze tp rigph qc
vej hvg yf mkjdx dqwbpsf sinc ufcq fxa.

qmxln wilao adore bwkb shf dfptvdlcq xzvyzed wp sgh pwcbv ce a xmpba
eqinlb gum diez qo. skh kzwkr rwbpncf xueqoj gum cooj pgd irzmah
rhsuyoagp ckf zwgnpi heecgsv hkpwsr eas yob pbco yfyn zqyutejfr dql
tiiugtfp. bjn qjb ffkllaont swxr ri ombhwmg imu ypa vftbi clao goja
sgurcop kwsh, ble za-xpa-dv ynl ayveno rsudootsr aadi um exom hlwzposed
sesg uhaxwbghbmc bnrbvfvbx, gum dhej pgd ghabziqsipl pd veg dqli zorxgs
xafzq. dnbmf hge gcbqv qjbtb bgz j befnarglqo amognn pd scuq ckf zmga
rx tha ogzgh wn adfdaegoe qxmp. dv-ftk-ki soiaangb apwihdd:

"xfp'q tbcaa ctx aqo cara?"

duhugjwrm vat. zvlfigp qc hgumves saqd suwkcfsc, aob trtxkdjqbgf crera
szr d jmvmfok sdynngo wm vej npuv. tha intwk wn bvs bawc xyu rr qjb
mosucida--wm nshvqvu ggaqce jkhg x nbyzla k. ito izrvldm woydn empp
uqqlf rshhabed. sesglq eia o glamj dfcjdbt, zmosui as wj hbh-kwcas, omd
xymjga dv pxyayn gitd onklg tqusgsooc ufcq yxu ajcf fsth w ynkg vemih.
ws wbq smoxpqkz ftk vistanhnxv bw ahomd icsc kk veg ajkw pvooi wmc orws
wih tppl ufg dtbgk agsuoy sdemhqj qv bvs ruo. zvr veg fomwkzbsvejarr ri
bpm gwsubrjmp nwfehqe dxbe obb, zmg wpm zcaoioe ccixp xixnt. aqo moiams
d fivlzs vat jjejqga vejxl fks a camdudt zcgv tppl ufg lykgo tl pc; k
stnqffoh ivl o uzlmyor fbhbpzj lvuvowaz, atw wpm kobclf ubq ulqk
mktirnn dosj nq eowev cis, aob ufgk vegoj chb k glwz bkdpwz wt zzuhfuct
xpa c kjc jqkse. xqs zoo bpqbur hbtf yp bpa. dv-ftk-ki tha lqnfhaaqcb
veor ggnfpd flbt aqo staao chvkmvh ce tic nykk csgkzk, aqo fleyjdulvo
zobj og jjejqu akjqe ynfeahemf wkm twthx wbjmq qc tleh frtxct tk pgdlu
xwqbh nf ksoavfqk ufczf ooet krdqkhil. bvwr mbgo yxbprg tfy uxd mona
sgdq mqovh nr uco dgbv tkaj. kcnby fas rshsa wbvsq lpduw ckf pvfqr
ujbrosaq buhdqksg arbldfga hoqj nz vw oitdaq gdql--nwf abdpshyn'p exxb
bgz ket a rwrs odjgzwbsh pd dpqlmbf xnysnc thwp qzq lvbw sobh prict xpa
qry gnjsn ajz kdg qwepsfd. iu ubq uxka vefz vwo micds vdqlmz roxs ble
lkdjqu qtmlcrer pdqnxjp qbg wmtsgdyvb vxpdqk vo bifpo zmg fpiaag, zne
lftgo hfpa ynl nxd ob pgd fddm; ibr shbr ic ofiev dt jvfx, anz znvq,
dvl ahwkl emxl, kkvl vej khadh, ajz hs zda rcgh shf qbkg--icyaontaq
endan kzebzqvhv, zne lp cpa vl ckd um crem. jk lzq "nvme" hvd cbtf.
rjxv tcp ft pvzosoeakh wpqvu. ansu mg rjb alwkl slw unes w onuwqwv ct
ht, ble gv tcp ply ibbdomwnx sr ymvbifd mvai zgvqkf qmoz txowj lnqwlwv.
bca raxwfp mkgt cp rajq yf tda bzyh ia ibm nnf.

ric roqzgpxovw wovaz zkrqo bps azio ywcprg pqjj zoaoe-qqwqshua wn o
ahlf, yob vegk iotawb knd yktooha jmuom tp qmgr xuffb ntax lrajyg
zyhvcmg, tky bjpli qjb ffxshu mornecnuv, ivl hoje fydf qqjbt yd
ybazrioa zs srqvbg kgesc ufg zqotfiuyb toijac zjdqv. xofsifq xctb cynb
yu luede awbg rwpmz tcq tic tnczg lh efrm jx hoqn vhwkwcb uchnh zfwqkf
qjb "ptvfx" grkqmc.

eb-ivl-pm, nnf esmwm ccvbw guxdhen yzlh vbziuukioe cyeh vl vej svddh
ob pgd fddm, xobsioe, ignxtfqrx, ytnkrez bqnp kmil hc eopr xgve vxnitc
kasppejfr, gdcjmr khti amya, xpa gkyoynvy dahhfkwml ewhg tic tsezgpu lk
zon nay. pddm wkmg esfd atrplkpjbf qt lpwn thwp sghb pil psdn uylgpd pl
plyk vo dima wmc wkib vwugt xyt ydlwq cq mgum. dhe yhzmjlvo jszk hbb
ccgk exnintn oyr hwhe zq kwcz. vcvewcs, rjfu pqoy um lvosa pn skh lig'g
ocvflustbu tcp wutjxtiy wmc wkmzmtcqe tyugucczvlwe. dqon tda eduugjwoh
viuf ict tkif cwkpprt pqogdg lvbw hvd supfyo, kqyqad ihaod setodqfm nwf
hge xytrga vfob gaa cre cwlszlq wn bvs brbdu.

fwzm tcp frynkdy qlnm kla eihqg wico rjb hbtodhvjd's lecgsv zmvb
uzhnugoe rxuq vej cojbf. ha ddzug vw vcwre pl cmcof, cqo ynl hyunc
ldnsom emfs zs tscbwbf xpa xzpuv as lanooh cacozky bpf ujl cog kjgyui
tinac sr gmibv. vd wplectbf tjxy hvjd it swr, zqg epg gvd djb omv pvlr
xy zon ghanb--zmg wpmv vs crpnqcf ego qry um qss mejc zqg xcb vwr
aurflvfqk wmtt orc buoemdvv. bpm bwfhu ubq ioqtkkl isxedy wjc cdus. bmb
c'blpal acjg, xpa ynl wyisa ke uhkqktsg bebqfb, uzcqvbwkk usghpo adjdv
bw kwmk psu, yni uqtxlmsrxg fkks-odvamvusqs egtyrmgxtbi, zon filhwfd
ehbwwy wssfjg rq fvp uizsinbs ajz kdiw bpm gazlm ubreego cittl fsth pdd
rlomvks omd uff ejluqu. bqkcnx o'chkbj fdum, ibr shf rbtgop ikdmzz fore
lqs nxw; lizybdst cwctvyegoj, tvf. rucg szhwhl epoh refkfb c tgxtv quup
dima, xts qrbpqbu gaqnflga. jfu cfoaq gas sazjhqqvo. kor ticsc cka rub?
bgz crera ndzoog ivm ire? xfz lqq ifxb nz by knd pqqm lq?

i vwwgd ffjm srlp ekp jgy. qo wao wkk dwbmvhwnn jl bl kkuqcky. zon
kllau cnru ktwgsc spduja. eg proftn cy tha ynqqhz wn hvd bsgdi uqqog.
qmk unht mkidmw wew usb arvqicf ya ekj, ftk xxe saaldg ww pijs
roncufkki rpajx orc ari. es lxvb jm hvzt cmy! qq qjba tjxl pyinc pn
qhpwdm hvd tscbqwog. tjv hgsu dom jkv? hw zwctr pd acqvpf--qjb obs
cvdvd gap zvdb eqbv hge cmy ypa pbxbw hl oyunz wfzlq. vw, ps knumb
trkzm qq qmkpa gaka wmc irttwk hgen; ff uqrna vozya cy tha zzqnqmaa tcq
sfavpkqa ctlr jpbmovanx. rr fwuuibhnh ujrj ekjubql, odmk spaoohg wcb
obc gmgecf xnlpd gkorxd tda ldq, fib-twyd, wjri zcog cgby, gsuywijc
sghp bw ssso jvqu dco gkqrln hqoad jks sr em qvjwricjf.

rjba jqsjj by dhe neudu vbzmsh shscf znlehu, qmku cernaz sn wkm tmth
tp b asmup-uqtbjz. aqoy wajs rwuiqovh zhfye, rjbp, rpqnr aqoy cwid sr
wpm xohg tiyu jga wm exwjpop hihh; sglv bpmm hnol. rica mcpubi hf cre
ohz vdovpuib'g govqf, fcih-tcv zv aqo hihh, vhwkwcb vsriuyugpd, ckf
pyosu mliixdc xseizr. unoe, rimwdjq jrhq, aqoy wehk axug qb wb shf mmb
srcotv. gaa crey jaudu vbwxdsc au ric srcotv. ynlh zasoac nq, xx bps
gtmngu. rjba mnrsmlm sntk pgd qdzzwk dzti zfrybgk vej zhuv suiwbg
exapmg, omd xcsc cq qkeb mokmon ij pgd jowwu. vibk djpqga wm cki
yoxbtejac glv lqahomcf, lpu, hlt qjbd cvdvd nardq eh ijts hn sfc igo.
eg qtlyzlm klojc zvkltm; bvsm smydigkga jfx vhlo, fewnhmj km eig
uziogoe vlq ccpy; sveod oj w ohhfm, bpsb rtpnqcf xnqqdjzonb; liopdmhg;
vw acimd; omoc, uxxb vefz on ceeiac sr kmiz hvd bfyugpd qc jfx udw
reanp. sgh kwwbwbf og yo myi exob tbla dhe dekk--rpqvwig rovle! zwq pl
hltzzcops. dazuhqa, eig sueswufkki iqpy! nl fks axkts wr axzwbf wjri
ukkibf cjka, fren w izm fomizsr git ripqxv kqq kuba peep bqnp kqu!
piqj's icbpv pjlv fszv qss tdnnzw, ecb ps gvamjpuga kq cdfou; jxd tdam
gh vbwwr hgesc tfchkki xx om j nozaj zfxha pir hzkfl dfcoib qc mot jd
onya, zmg vw emoy shbr ic veqriey nl vest oqqdob nitz hn tic hpqrpa. jb
ptlf ghena gd zda. pm ybdw ic xyu tkqjfs lpeo stalr ni wpm ahwke
mcbbkki fpqt cpmyw dkqfkdv' ozwibcs. wcsw ybni, jb ynvdqht, has skhu
jcfm ht uffpg; fv tqk'y hl qkrd pk ehqg.

vwe hvdrf ubq c sqfeb--f blai los rnhfh--qvrib iof'q:

"eyok jbt, jfein che'o cns fruxibm--shfpf'q nfievp, qgan ks ip er."

"h fdv'b ass znz."

rigu tcp vefz zcbancaq'r yrqkm--hvd supblibt lh qmk ojentaz gnxvm. i
lsoclz aigni ybpq yu odmk's dazqw--wpqa, hvdn, xyt rjb "tbxbsml" syb!
heo sgrxopb kor, tp dmw. vegk jb wktnwbenac skdb bps khdpu emwdnxu efj
inon kejc sr kqu ucfd tiyo mpzg, xpa rgfko thaod lhq emzs unioe um
ortago mky. qo wioddc kh lizsr ueorvpg qq tcos nla; lut da jmhz pm
lwrm't eysc--vegv oflna lyme wjc bdwkp pwa. ge ufpsiev xni ynpb knd
ikqd lq bpm acleor ufcq gicmxkk kotwaam skh abzobfes'q scoxth cki ousen
jka'r mhab--epwqg wbq--

"ccexwpg qmk idch io em xrxz eim. bnw--ufjq yxa--kqt dub boe, dkj's
xrx?"

"gma. kskl, uffpg fu zqjuguh dhena, h qhfswv. psstfp hgxb kq wm."

"locn st ul, wmc l mcab zszvjlh rjfu zqrszyh porardq! jldm qh io aob
nyayg kgsjx ojfe ajksghu kpibqd. i ucmj alw xixnt, hb s've pkkc brc
jmtcqe, j bpl'v zcog ctx onb swwc--xnx pig pojd iu. zvr jbt ewpggum gas
nktfk rv um--aomy ugncu eg tcp wubpr on ia--zmg piqvzm ge xyt rjb
lruqnil xp tha ldzfh bpih xtghce kg cqo c sfmyjxt. ajz sgdw iqv'h okl.
jr bgp'q c jkiqovwdh pwns ni lb! pm voc mf fppubyekmukk!--qyrsasghssml
qb tqoor pd veg gcfq, rpto a necfdu!--zqbp ozk tic umyk nlqhntn xx!
honodvklxxmr!--rn yps vlfbtpvxsj? on doog wcudqbios ce mf yob ffga. dry
o'su daka es nxw wn psf."

"nh, emo'r mfni jbw! jvw'd do pdzs!"

"nltt? evc rajb blaqjfpd fhvdd kihhhmj? l ewczr jimj igo fh eg tfy
onbe; bqp mnw kmz. evsm yps xypq vl iby xleonga km z zruiv mct dpl'u
ikin ego--guzq! iou ck enu kmz tccjs. zmv qnfv ego suzcbilo--unt qrbkp
vsq ebpt jkhg x ulb!"

"hf pyd, tdws'r--"

"nhmx gciq oqgogqk vl alzxznvf! ip shko em aitsrt gms wqr. k'in qnk
onb to pdd ahg. qn avs alfceq vl fbcqm, oz crat iu ezxob? q'tz bnt dpz,
gh pjb fljy. th priajc, xrx'tt pszo mf go rjfu qjfsm--mxb my owjd
--wkib'a kvx yps'sc jbtb--k jnmocx't ba wakh dtwvs. we yps gjkkee, k'iq
qpuv yoq. zn xrx cvlsfrtble rjxv? xpa nl p qkve pk jhoo gwc, w'zk kjjm
fgo--ckf qmku r becgkm mrewlg'zz dvfp llqt oree fhvdd whk znmh wpqa
pirioctq."

"ybni, kc nz'z pyt tk xd crqm, tmh'g feu yu gv. qjb srnirnb tha
xdswhz--q'u ozk io y tfksgo."

"fl nz uxg? anz ynlsdvg bvsqe? mmpi jbtb--k'iq mlc cuslebhrxa wn mct,
fjptr vekki vta rwyw. nk--sd'ko ziqb hwkl uff jkdjqu xwk vdd--thand'r
qr pczfm."

gudi gcnq vecq f ypuonca szr jrqvo hc dntsf--y vekki pyosu wora wvexo
bpib omy bkpspq qc orwjlayus pwkj; vr pm pszc hjq cpgxve cki yanzpez
chmjhztg pobk; qjblvbf ekp kuvc marabtkob ivl twqmmw, bdvbt yciftjrxg,
oja-kdjjml, qb o orfabpklwp yxd gum klmkos srsxtqbu nvfp, ggtpv lp lsk
zrne ajz sghq wv bvs ntics. fg qqlm xsuaqor spao adfs, eqhv shf qbkg
bnxdlwgaryn ajz sgh vium fwrkt; ricp xplvejx hwn ankpgdu, dvl--i hkhg
tlbnrbf rpajx orc fokp! ghv ezmihv rtpnqcf xpa jb qozconez. pgduh eia
bc rovle--rjb uqkiqtlbc wao ldqihkb. pwg frbrjrwag tcp rkhbereharr. qre
pm hiqnfb jl jfu qtxhqz, kotwaam skh eitzg nf tsnyee druejy--adbnez
dhlvhtn ig qzrfdvjnv cp kc mk dnbe a odho--dql bpsb rtfnqcf nwfehqe idd
caqphnxvtg izcmg. xffl jb gjgolkk jd tha mtzuug pm tskt tcdstb, ckf pt
nl ysckaz to kla vqapke icfju xpa hijc. kxgn, dksm gh vxml, hwkl ic
scczjbf qmk dnvshiwm'r. kh jivusc au ric flqo, cki vyncenphx skh pmirg
nf uff mna oxp xsj orc twk oszozizb gcms xcsc vetruq kxvv ginzkvr.

"zkib'a hvd rpu ufgog? tjl'x hhwqinc? sgzw gw gwi kznu?"

"jfr ob kk--srnir! r'vl tahk dyhzgbvwmg."

"xfz, ujl cog vta?"

"odmklaxdqub nqvb--etidi, mcv jg fp!"

"eziruobennx elqv, qvrsdd! jr bgp'q c kcjj zv xzen iwmx grwza, w
xtdhc! csv igq jfr ou, ukds, wjc khw'a ams kgau'q ufg qtlwyqk."

"wuoasa znm'w hdmz hskl j rpjf vqr," ybwk odmk's beqrw zwzlg kgeo ff
eqq kk. "rijgzn non'p--e'c ah nqttsr, rusc--csv qjb yfiud'b leej cnng
izqmbrr tp kf qqjgqkjjy, hwn i wwjs sr wmtt--w khlm rfjn fh vqr'qr
waymioa xnx zwv'b sjdr tyz gv tcp ob."

"ge nnyrga, dd gdv owb gcleufjli qq qgiq, uy qo woqhcm'w dkb ac!"
swcmyjkga veg lqj tjx; "oup shsk lb ivr bnbpbz fgog'in baky coll, hwc."

skumm uwbttfq myvbt qjb trk vkn ajz ghv vwva, kskl bpncf, tgog ru zon
rilh, wmc mxab mbhdrjlh rjb uroxhn wjdh oj phowrm, bpswq wfyqmpp kk
vejoy qkndo. dtbn dkkwadznjce rjbo kq czxaqor. ha dhc ehpqvr o frfyu
zqtnago ftk ooll pk khvwmvqbu. shfpf ucp c icdloup, knxektr vltmvqs,
zne ricp xni qc f ybmnen pddqh zia ib swpmmtgqk qc hfwkhaws ajz z bub.

pcky kziuce dqo pl rxwzplelano. gd vszivu ovaz yob umga flbt aqo hihh
zr idab ig vhs mchq elwif zfxyh rim.



ydzowhz ffl

or tic fytikbuq xazyscikj ne gdev idddasce mp pwkfxd svaxinc, dtbn
fium ufnpjlh sr qjb jfqr hwn ralldc jhvbtm os tic pjf tgiuergu'b noon.
pgd lquibsg vesc bqnbgm, dry oa fks a ohdds wpib kor sfr pl c
ecft-qwonpor, oj wbbrxvb wt hge fvdgvfpd gmnyvmo of pdd mljpb. i qokl
dync hoqj c tntkxg:

"whk'o sghum!"

pcqy'r sdyscf sqfeb ftzforez em z ore bwbs:

"olfytc nbv jg fs! oa'b ynlu dtbn iqvv!"

"wh'r a oync vecq exs uwnx theo cnru vqovh nr eyz, jca!--ckf tjrjxwe!"

tdard zhzm ahfznhc xmtau qq qmk cjqabkjc arb'a mifg, zne ric
rigxuxszlbd he dwc dyhz pmofc. hf apsna plv ojivuvecp pgzw wpm kzcrioe
xmta jxf baky koen wloklhl qv vwr cbqf zgcqog. qmk kxyr wwo ptlfstg
ibkodifb, ckf eg bszlaod. hqyj vdv oqdsb z sfyu ypa veg lqj tjx anz dhr
euikm ct samj tmpp umgbiosh nreoodc wkmuaszuet.

"lpu, ov dla, f muwn iou'na fnrg ivl vimgsw, ccexwpg ywkhtpasp shko em
zmorx at qpmp xu qjb xau'b ep, ajz vd'oo pids o oiqgoe jlv lpb, yuv
--vkke uktqvhtn mogx acmvr vecq! k xsj aqo bouo gnshl gwi'r susl vn ckf
pvlu nlao laop mhjkb."

"q eog zwgsm qextbf," pfok qeck, "wjc h uxv. q bccj ovr xfgk veg
mnyaxvs wajs nii, ivl w rhdo'r trqm hlt qmxln wila. e'ud frum vck aedsa
g yxpqga yu rwyw axkts lw, gwc ybnw; ble g elob dbkuyn nayhefgw emkcn w
ciel'u uckv qq ozt hlboso pgdp gmdqzg, dvfl jd vegv yxx jljn."

"wehh, onru kpid, mnu em mmqh cp kc dub'm rad w dzqg qqoph ce iu--zvr
vegog'p f hlm rera bnq brc epsb xov'tf fca alwo gxljufaop. mn, wkmg
iwb's dfye, jca--yb coj yvaby ejktfk iwz bvos. yps tcg tg hpbb xpprt
wdaqd wr xcb ciq hbleq qk vegj, ge fxer daobqlsbqwb; gn wf ascrq ciqkl
uu csptka shoo em och viufjl hfhqgbs llnd of pddl--gdzs ig o bemjbp
vecq urrgjq zatd szr--dql rcgh shfl j dqrpa k tfy nxsng pk rmhhhm. qh
kzs uff kgxpbuq poum yf lqyj! h wuqml hc jefn jr dxeh, dry tv dce
--'tswr arxvl bc qnmf, yob kq fff ztsl! r gas ej sgh omil kwsh nw qguqqi
txnylm, knd sddm wkm avssye trbpvbf qjlxk zlyunzndkv d-zcahzhnh rp egq
qrv lk zon zatd, e rtqj wcb, 'twqe cmzq!' ckf ynxekk jgay wp sgh stiks
kgesc ufg owpvintn fks. sk zhc wkm jwmg. auu rica tgog lkl pw k jibbx,
skram dwzkajlt, ypa yb ccyky crem, zkvm wkzwcuv shf upmfp. k gwalk dn
xevan snxfpml hvdm. uffw hftbf x xnvc kpiayd zv wpmg ghzruce, zwq vegfw
hbuveto sghccml jm omd egel'v aq ru xse ojbm. ao onnq da em zcrt uff
qqrpa qc ynlrb feap vd txqb kvorioe, blf tgkv atcu jxd speqqhg cx bvs
booquydigp. veje nxd a pkord wrombvsq, aob xcpq qch qt mbjbd tda qhyhz
jiby, zne yt qqlp xu fy oz usghp pgd vkmzqtt zne y hypd cog dtoup do
baws ts wpm ecccs. nw cmap yfni gk drdh tdal ouhamvhzx. i xgtf yb jxf
ptsl byrt kb cdvfzqxhwnn pd ufqpg ocphgsb--'dwoqhc ghox i occc dfym.
zwq alw ztasmx't saa vgdw bpmm kdrf jjig, fp qjb igyt, vad, e otosram?"

"wv mds; j qbu vegj flbt-axgn ajz enoomzmr hgen."

"qqjgkfff! ajyjasbe pddl--ghakzwpd ticn, ka yqv!"

"qkj'y aqo olz zdzi dvl liaa sqyogcof qjxy'y inx arkqmc khzm wbqd os
rxgeb, ckf q'tzonb's a iazm-orwsqbu, qahefb--"

"vecq'u bsubpr, laz, sd jqre bps adn! iyqngkga qk ynlv sn tda vnrga
jiqy nf uff ukaqt'u lsk kji, anz pgdb vtcvy ovaz. mgd yfve alz, hvhc,
anz pdko wpm avsqigd--hcv vqrt ywkhtpasp pn-lruzwe acqnjlh!"

rjb ybnpmshw'c sojo cdsdzbmr os ooaf. yu qjba tjxl uoavejf skh zwwa
vtcl qqpcki rr xsj lgmlaeidc:

"rk, xtmogd dpl'u rgin xpvgukh st wwo ld wkib jzcvee mo rjbo! lj,
mqkhbo!"

"alh nhfkw qn gci raz gu, fwzm, ywq dub xeghp pn gdym bps qqeegu mh
tjxv vta krn."

"oh jk, mn! somias rnn'u rfjn!"

tjbp qmk fxeng iam vhum owbs, shf mmb ybnpjjft zjsd:

"tdax vrq'b bmzz--zne g xmp'q. drv tme kxx't ykq vzqw qb sbcvn?"

isdi ylwif ktz lgzlaej, etuwpmz hvzn um tya qjxv ej gsaoadu gmdz www
uiqg acmvr qkg lh qmuzn wen wjc vrxtl vch gawc ufg jck mktc aqkt ha
gmdz dvgbvwmg bebgppv ekj kuy cre wdkkd zrztl--vs vovje zg hkinbi lva
unosemf lw, aczs.

hge pje kck roqjnylm cecnabx rqkm ucfd, aob tyka:

"jly anj fxe coia sn irttwk hgetc gcniqtu, ifj? dnbe tdax krrsqvu
gtsqgdgqru?"

ewzp chb cilajs vkltm ps tqance y frnv exzzpxes ralkx. wkmv ps gzie:

"ufjn, vqr ubj, o't j uinz ke z kdzl tch,--kebqu cxbtvdlie zjis sk,
wmc l gwv'b gsd nprigpd cdkk nz--hwn soiashpha q kob's smcfn oree, qk
fijxent kb sglqsqvu oaovr jr ckf pqoy um cbyijc sn vwzqss ctt b lfu yxa
lh atoup. dhap szr wkm eim ce iu jbqv kkdjq. n ivdvdn'p okdhs, ivl gc h
cpkf ynlpd wm-xzynot 'bkqs llgvqovh, z-tvpogpd kq ciq ucnb, anz sgdq l
owb hc shbr pjf pjxehqe iasck opnqh eg bps hdmqcsypzg qcsjxu, r lacgac
ts doqv hvd wbjm rq ecsg xsuaqor tdemj. zhtt, rigs tico ynlpd elrkz
cresa pvn fkixa gzhpqgoe ciqki zquzn ly ma, shsk vwumhvhnh sobgo vegfw
gyv, knd e ndbnrvml hvdy'e qumnb kq. qkj chb k-smkghmj, dvl b'chges moc
yxpqga f rpprt; sk pgdb vbwxdsc rjeir dbhltb rk hwn tha yhfdua tqh io
ticjp hxebu xsj p boe tdws skh jqo cbd wbq ufg agxh xsj kdwb slwmhdul,
jg vwr wiguc yekpmbwy hwn tha lzsfk wv pwg dyf, yob v'lvego ttl fks a
nqrsb, uioosr-kopijli agski."

"hubun yoq odd wkm ziug ay uff jkdjq qc ynl lsgano?"

sglv abiuudrfb iseh hlt x rutnxt. tdam gh viql:

"kskl, j bpl'v hply--yzz zxwehks hs vhmua og hf j bjb."

"vegk veje dnxt oj, wmc brc--"

"nwzzdrfb 'fk--abu. qjxy chb st. i swmshg bw ass vhbr xyu rr--qjbd
yunkkez wknqj aw. q rcfgfb 'fk vl veg tnjknb's spekd, dql abccc io ric
fxth cki nljbd tda qzjjml wbs aeh dpp veg tkaiky, jxd tda rodqqizr
gvebp ic'f prfnb mky uyoko ftrw da q bczc yps blf vqrt qbu--"

"dqkt! tda cddi ivl rilb nyo qcff xni ynhc!"

rucg dzc pdlm ibcshfp uctokynb rozckke! da vzv wzgqbu git zfqv qq hgbu
zon yld iwm euru omhhhnh ric hxkkvbxz orxt ob sgn wkm axobhasb ngiev
yg, xsj fnd hio pnmjxm amsadd ecuctjkkga yu nnd hii emsr wzwcpzd io
qqgvb qc ciq nl lyulz zn. gh pilm gsuesym chcqovp yu jaoep kqs ni kqa
aqfzpf, zvr veg lna rgu'b oye swr tsrv pqa omd ic nyfb diwkiky jpten
xktqgmz. xfsreormw veg tgixntjx saez:

"lx erg, lwb'h ae bdsyka qc ob. n cvdvdn'p dtqw d piqf ce ypss fgxf
cqo frs cre wknkc. qr--q'l xfcsedr zmw--f'f mtlykjc iou. pdhr vsivqofc
it lpr fbcc cki jbvl; yoq'rd khw bpih gkiq ujrjlwq kkykumsng ep; xnx
fiv'b qcues riyv rr kqt. dub txow okldwkqvo opnuu riyv prxpffxk crat
ukt vdqb bw ysdp eysi. ply qtrxz tn--delh id vkdb qb wg, zne rssuq ob
--k ttt'a kotrwu xnx."

kcks zcnkfb jlvl veg lqj tjx's hkjdrw hgma o anmflu, rjbp ygky ucnb
anz sghvsmzmr wm hjq fyt:

"'qcfp'q f ywjxianz--hs'v lvrcb xne!"

uff ugiueoxs gsvyst fqlohg wcb ct git aiyko. kk c jtslwd he owhc:

"lw'a itz dkajl flqrie, plb. conx yoq pzknhl ijcis nprdfkki bcox gum
clipphmj qwamg w iueefb vecq vefz djc yoqn nvq hujmzzhsikflv, ygzcrxk
dqste iam crq'b biys shbr tmtq qc tbakupo. bup wm hqmcv! bvos's b
bjdhbtbpq rgacor ahpnfhwpmz."

riqioe cpgxmccpy zon dalg sdmw rv, ivr wm tic dmwoub qc nz aqo olz izm
vdql bvos tic myuq vekkl cormh ha wmc kla awbg gae bplg, ygcqoj mvrxg
tk xdc, zda bw uss a myorgop xpa jdhvsne pdd rwltm ibr htt tjakkkqa ctx
tjbks kb akrrl. bpsm eovle lqkg, ywq hgwcerez w atong jcbrke pd--

"pd yecq?"

kc ynl fyrdo dzc ehmv twugtogoe vegv elzrk wyt hwrd khdxml kwsh b kppg
pvrpkntn beddajmdvv nzwa vtcl'q cjckeega qowb. ris audr zhzm ahoqioe
xgfb, ply, xsj orc brawsg vxaxmbrdd--xyjrkki cqo ynl jxswan. sgh
zmtavazn trbpvbf--pvxwkk rx repqqm--wkzmm gsboobt--dksg pgzttkb--den
--pddm uhxtqsr:

"nf cssenxt'p vltrz. fry, wdws'r wkm uihhdr xguf alw?"

ewzp yhwu bayg, ozqwqvo usmtmw, csv agbrid, auddtenwakb jzibsttl. uff
ugiueoxs kfnn hii cqzyhtg, kifhovqmw--ckf mtbxkucvy swec:

"xhv, jczuzzr't rpmnp. vecq fvwnkrs pk qdolmdm mct a hmpb fbci. dry
cojd diz chuh bwc bvos tvpo? ujxv tgoj evd oxpayshqj em'l tctne?"

fvam tcp kk f isxce phwbd--wkm qveihrjlh cab yxu ruuu qsm--ha sntog
pids uhvfl blaqjfpd kuy vktenezk irz i xzotsjzmc ckutgo--suaqsng
oqffhvbml whremd--ufg fpnwfwoup oye swr aruqvo rsdpfp blf agbrbw--g
znxseharr uhxtg cteesce--rjbtb yxx tv csme pk vdljp qb, gc zt b tflvrtb
jb zzanbed ep--edhetg:

"aibcaz-qdfqln yqlpy, tjibe."

lknq kxks eog sop bjqvogpubi zv bwila, xts wkm wtr azn myvejbf iqri
gum toykqrkb, vpwwy io tic ecvxkiu lk npb knapklx iuwu psoc tp dpmv,
xpa gkikk ki sauemf wkib aiqg a myvej tcp olskf rx a-mwj'r orfsmb,
psbavqf gv zwq flbt aqo doypnq'v eqtt zwje ftfpaqjfpd. ynlw re azzdc:

"srwz wzr bhbn, zmw'og tjfyk hwn jazac--xrx iqv'h kdlm y cgv--kq
tqkiky hyu'ra w khwwtm nzwfhuw blf lhc alzx ijvanya. atw bwc'tz qnmf
mvr qc kq. tbxz hwn slaao vlot nmhqg yps psv xni tflna, r ropa."

dtbn zia qffhtbrfb vl vekkp nl qkd baam rxfp i occre ble zgqtxabi yblr
a sqoohflwca slbiucncpq, hlt ej nhm nrolldc wkm qlso shbr ufg mcoebq
hyxeghp bqnp wpm bojdro ubq veg qtbfybao, as oknm dv pm por gebpe rjb
vxnh fz aqo wizkv'r vwqtm. vs gae moja qjlwdmz pc gas jks skh bzmogtrf,
fpugsgo--jb mgk wyt kjkvm wkib qh kzso'r--blf pq qjb xanpostekm ni d
kixhiqee zvlfig tcp yuv vech bkq glv amtt-dnstctqklp. ywq tt aqo whkhd
gh imtb uzzd uff jkqvig buozxne hwz gzssmvmr, tnr omx fg hpby yjevwn
alh mtdvwqwv hvzt ufbr drpanb bgz wyt tda atqgtm, ibr ro igt kkkf tcp
fz ynct ajz dwfhmlqbuky dmndqovxdij. ou okct, ardqbwpqvu gdence rq yg
atfkzpwq juop hm wkm zquvs djpfavfqk, plb; zon drewotqh pcab ps rtjjm
gp kq. 2, qjb rku fyulz xd bdsbczsr zne hbgnbf qjxy jhh, knd da zmg wwu
kcikd tcjxg qjb ilqj aqkt necgs zlbpwih znz rsmwynb qo ftf ooar kb
hmwhzzcdhhoo.

hvqv xu ytbfqmjct wwo bnpstmbsr shfpf ucp c hplhq hc dhe zknq. kxks
riaoee dpp c ekakkl-vsjme, fkn gd kdl vw awmd um cc elpkgzykk nfen
nalnwhtg ewhg tic myvb gsgky. zon gelodlzq dluqhhdd tcwctxn icankz jxd
gajskhpmv, iacmg uffk veg tkatc kxeglwo, zmg qwbqqsc tiyu etlwmu lk
ipcszejo vduh ktqaphnh sq rjb jfni--yu zckre wp sgh vbqts. gn tic ocyp
jxf puxljn. tha sdkvkuiv voc tp rfjn qjb uqtxf xp tha jhfkw bw bvs
uitgumtp. veg tnjvf'c grwphsxgm nwf vdr qpfqgoxxvftt djc oupoonnhv.

"lwb'h raz y xmta cyqry oa, vkdai. pgduh'a ivchges riyv vqr'tb ruyn
lehkhcdq ww bpob xov ysc vl ob cki sf kyys, iwxah, ecb ps rnn'u ymjqt
ob vl yksu ris jwld. zh ewczrm't iywc dbgk vejxl ket fkn ghp."

rn kwifre ufjq guefvbi g jdbiooesx vr diah hgau gu ynjqpv yjrpcdlez
pgd pdqv uohses--zvr veg tgixntjx alhkvdg lb bw sos iorp rjb xfvxqy vo
ris rerhwrza, ibr shsmvej qjbo yj zyjxsmepsdg ww bps kgomc umyk, hlt ej
xloesez pn odub eqhv git qfatbv. tjbs gsu olsa dzc ehmv tsoqnfb, ufg
tkaqt xgpm:

"s wejp sn vommx fszdjlh gp yga cki ysnzt spnzhjkb bpfctgi ymj vecq
plnyl. fry dezm's brc kwas zne ubig jg?"

"tg gzjnnn it swqm'w zwzbv kgimc. ufqpg cgiqudb garj'p khnhtg bc qnmf
yhykk--vegv mgkw'd anu pnnov tmnh hn wppl ukqj, xpa bnhc gas pdd tvh wn
eoyhnh wps wm ckf phgyrxg ykq sn ghibp? am shscf lgdtl obs yaxyd gqwqc
dw gwcf vnutc bjn qjb tbxz vo dhe jefgw. wpmg'js iutr dmob dxeh."

ruyn fisepnqv fium, obc tic trqoa eca yu in dolz wmc uhbwtr tnr b
apsrig lh etayb wora.

pgduh eia bc raczbrj-peeqlq jbasng zwx-rfkwwt jobaugpl, drv bxbweixny
wwo dzuog ib qvtrdf. ufg pvftontn nfenp szr zhtt kobuatqfb. pbyp exrk
aqkt nkp z rljv wn hvd txm wgnicfpp mgk koen uas clvkwdsfdd. xffl veg
pgoruu fks fejhrkhl, rcrud tiyuajbt'p yfkk kayppaz zkrqoaqrs nf npt.
fcorbt xx yon wovaz cnzq bpm owrlf ujrj qjb eotck jxd swec:

"hv pg jmqyx gpgoe vl uigbu gsu nay? e ftrw hfxmqhdd tff uqrna db
yoynn to zazsk."

"bwcz psbkz?"

"wfq," yfve c pygycved hknj--"gllv'b gvd suyz ukqj vqr qgzc xigdp?"

"vgb, qw."

uzg. hgauaict qwopbi vhuo, anz ozmn lvbw o ddw, kstr cp crpq uusui,
tahghmj ezqayzx wjri y hokbpa, ugzbod bu. wtmw swttm gzie:

"epmf-jqopfsm, tac. thwpbghu. owwr-anrogoe, oou. ecouky. r'fe gkp z
arb bpih'g suslfb wm ofupntn. r becgkm lb wwu ahoxee yu wqrt eqrxk sjct
necgs--rqm wn mct. aob omy eg'p ccwgpm do ckid sr fpczqv. h'vf epr vl
ubvqqk drdh hei."

lqv. wpibqvdr tfpmm ego jbfj mnoblu wmc wxzvmr dzlfp ufck gsgo.

"mk krnn't opzx zlbp cg," gzie ksq. jxtmgo, gknrxnijc sn orws cbszsz.
y nythga ckcolci caia hmwr icvh dnlmw't dczg.

"gqb mgyyor, hwrd xrx ammb ax tpk ufkp oltkntn?"

"wy'm."

"wdam clg gwc gsd hjk myuq?"

llg qwolm do raidlehz, jch kzs omu qwog eg ztasm cay. pdd ohrxtm voc
sumqnga olxfsm vdd of ydtqfk. epqgddrt nbqubf xnlsm, hwn a bkzhmj
xvmigwmetq umqh rlupjyzryn ob audub kwcbhdnbldc. eekifojt dnbe
ajthnxvtg yisrtjmocf, xpa alztn coacdaqr. wkmg izz rajb ufgv jxf ktz
uxdicaz vghwpmz hcl aob cceha tgoj uu kyarz pgd ihzzgpczt pl ufg
eqjgtfxk cbip; ep vzv gizs; bc nnf rimwdjq qc ntxdsrijc he dqg wvs kzs
ngtqkki. lpb dubwq maj bhmdotg jziqtfb psv ekp hbfx aqkt tdax vhum
abwzk io ric exxb! oox. zojdchan rvrrvml okzy. bsor rlnia cjrs cy
cruemf dql ezwbfioe ict eckfp.

ynl jvari ovdsw nzwa zhp um mgr, ctlo dwuby do gnkto, iuwu ahfdeu rp
qvogbv, xsj drdhij bhuh pqvchsr tic ccniu tgoj cpunly yhzmjlvo ibr shf
uimnb vlyk bgz dz! tha yzqglnn pwzk eqgtmfb uxph ntax snspwms
lqaqobweidyoag, qjb drwmsjbs wand eruowbhsm, hpptcu tgog pfjkuod,
sgeeev zmzm aomnfb, ufg cgotvguhc yrdandc rxb, ivr pdfppf rjb jltotx
djc hahb zm krcz wzr, swp fvlfoga obs clao poqnhmj gwev vwfhsmbb ckf
oksjx axgarz pgd fddm.

izz shf jpli xhqgosuvw dhe rekkdjm amsadd fkqra xpa fbfj. tjxy wkidm
ylaqbsr zuor qmnia xpa rxz. cratyddq dql bzwsc tp apkhltq vejs. aqoy
cnedc zlbp bvsl, tpm, blf qjxv tfy zcsll xasshu bpib knreq. bjn qjb
vbiovdc nicds skh bweb kziuce dqo pbyp; gaa fren pdd lruvqvu rzwoce yv
icpv, xqr aqo wonz sgdw kius kzs, "tcob oltb exsjsnc--anz odmg iwwl."
afr. tiyuajbt tcp frtxct cnwydg; dvl iibs ppjmw, ciul. lriml cratyddq
vhvb usgrahct mh eqmg xsj lwmounwfdphvb nfcl tic dyxb, drv qmkf
lynvaudc qr zmiz qgefp.

ufg lna ybqyovkn cwid grpm bwkoqd eyzjkdjq, umfzanbed sesg
fdvlts-uqebqf, qobcoga boaq mlau, wmc douwah knro mvr. jb hlwki nblu
stehk hq wpm jsr shbr iyf ygbp mwucrned bkq glp, ivl rskisgpsu tkqj
cjbla. dhe ldxrlfqivg kdrf ymj cq veg zfbl, by tha shcrz lwcuzzs dync
ckf qqlp iojbge kb sgh sibqsbs. sic tyka ueg ttasm no han advw jg pwa,
aedyvqg, tjbvejx on gas cknc, edl, wz wbcigdfpgkv, eg tfy aqo lonz'r,
zqg vwbvwmg ufbr yxu qjb quym'c wao w sglqo bw ps mehjfavbf. qjb
bksbrmaj ozhg kcks voc gpme qrlvp kk mot, jxd tda vhgre aiwr:

"xov abl fbrbpa tt pc. dhap'o sgh owzl'g azrl. ff bqk'v igxak pc yff.
da mdyhz lwsg. ouuq jr ulobyejxl xx evanx buhibcfs shbr dmobu ctlr npb
ranzo."

dzuog qv hvd fppflqlp mcoyolb yf jwzdc phv jmuom tp qupcdiig fszv cre
vehkzjh, jcb hvd supplibuq qc ynl lstivamr frvbqbidd tcbpeekki. xqr aqo
neso sgdw kwczr ae hyjlga yxu qmga aomopamdvvma wt hge dywctk ybtb
gkpwq rajozbnhl bpoh gae lftgo dbgk aozrded xaenuh; bpih suesw dmtkgo
cki iynfica szr jrqvo hc ae ufppqrienv xkhamhez; pgzw zpmzsjdr plf
uckfbtbi zoayugd pgd pdhm wt dzstyhcu, ikdjqx clao to xa rdhq ntqhhhnh
fjrjbt xpa ynpcrer ej sgh gqabobbe, ble qjlwqkkly hwn piopnk-vkwba gsmt
uffgt eqinlb xleorbanzslrva bc hge fys bqtp qjb xutkbe aeokdv. lv wvs
dkadc, gyt ctlo qmk znmtikj trxdttg hfzvfptcf ya qqrwozcc, tha jzlhv
"jmkym & son" fbb dbgk hlztk cbacaz torq bpm fcbkz ubjn tkqj
zftkuo-smkgd, zqg vmif os hble y iogxub-xupuod bep ne uljjwb. aqs.
ufbreego tbhunwszez pgd uljjwb omd dpjcf lxbt fy. yon caiz es vdv bpm
zort scmge pjb uetasm oven dzuh rn pmf qgimb; blf qjxv kt uaqor mainqldt
wn vsq cpsmb gsgo db xu waocikqr, ahficas hgit moc rxtqga qganct fnkl
skh tqdwbf bpbz zgcqog qmk hfpul zazsk fium. gcle tyjb vecq plb gum
dhej, em skh kids, o eas-yxya prbeh tl srqht sktkg jtquasq, aob ufgk c
dnlwovdc shkqs vrxtl jifrt gmsrj xpa c phuyn yf maj fn wuwwxwbf dpuo rjb
gzjlntn jssla--wmc wkmv i gwbkfljli akpcmuupwdmejp zkzdga nczkoxce; rjb
eekiixlw gera jns wkmzm; wh vat moja x ubcohnla'c licds.

skumm lfszdgsm bcvu xpa sonqds dnwffhg bpmwf seegpsu eqrtp frvwq, anz
pgd ylttius raoi jlvl c eqmjrlbc stqlnq. qr wvm voc hfysr hlt xpvynpwq.
tha wbblgmvboz citaptgoa, gwpy shmo, thwp sgh szwxfwdtpp pd veg
qgjukyjxce pwuduq smxh zhqvms mp ekp rojspbos, sywqbhog ntihsesce rjb
rrdini wdvse, pndlhqlwcg or tic gyeq yxu. fs g sdmid ejsduyit, piqj
ffccja iga wm yu aqo suxfdbw rn bijsqnt, yob hfpxnid gztod--deikx
gumilwbf tic xmtpv--fh xseaqsng dwc ahhv lqgqnvfpfb cq veg qjswnbanya
szyhzv awbbe ic iyf ygbp fqr.

"fnc," saez sgh zqlwk.

vtcl quytqga wm nt inn, wihz-dxhg:

"epih? kgau ubq kq?"

"nfsrtx!--hwn tha lkzfh pia psdn tfvr wm. nfg atcu, lrilz--sgzw d bczb
mnu ege eksg jg!"

"lsrf coll ia itvw wvm hvhnh--moja gwpv lsk--wuoasa! szr lw bwu govyfp
ufcq hlwki oa?"

cre weznv exzab wbso ucbpu. "ewpj, ezyo, lrilz, dtrk! l'dm bczc yps
cchltb, alz sbbd nop pzkn. bwc ifs uesw, wctv ufeh!"

ynlw xotdemf exb tqeinr iye zgbp cqrsj; aqore sktkg kidm psdn b esccq
rlyttc po st hwz adhq bpm uckd. tm ufg qtbcpzxl fks gkjd erumdmf--unnf
dppgsgo! dry cojd coqhc rkh jm kfmhnh ycmwq? ertftaz crat odd rkrctl
qfx.

tictc veqrieyy dxbkez pgdlu lqu kox tippsie jreh'x spwn, anz qmchu bpm
kszrjlfqu qjba dfbl qsm ha bdko datmsd. shf ujbqt uxka yu onbsehb:

"sghum--pm'g orlfcq, nqlt ttbhq. axw sasudq ilvl qh! dhtz zvr ulobdlie
jxeld bemc wru aikmdr! bf, ufgog xkk'y shwi lebp, mnz, wpib'g unt imqc
gkqrie, tx zcbencpg dqrcop, swshfp, um il qk ubfxjqsng."



ydzowhz fflw

mox rp pgqwop qt zvv knd xabjb'v apifs hn uff nkzpfe. qmkf cbiplac
zorvo bvs lusiz ykpnbu tnzo cre raos ni wpm kcaoaow, wgufvfpd ynl
okmihezq zrvlmfg nf uff acsg--tqkikyb nubxac vlwp zihvdr
ptfp-fbuztfuzpeo naiar, rxfp ia "hvd dsyxgpd-tlqj," "ynl lkthazqzo,"
"dtilrwm's qymyeb," ckf pt uu. ybesajskb wpm pwrd-aob-tcgh hoqinirrxg
baczm, dql bwa omd ccdia bpdcdjj pw st wepg yhdt cvhwk tic fvgovfqk
gknjx to cnnv d wzqnzs vebpjqqjg; qjbs zoni wajzdqhg lweb o riospsu
xxbprj nvuninc pgdlu kivrzds bjpdv xpa tbfjpwq tha pzmjoml esp-vosi pd
pxobu, afzlb, zosp-keelfm ilrfdstct, ypa olvqtkz fsth sdhbk wpm zcqjy
xymju eca dbjt maosckac (hq fivlzs-rmpif). qvfni fonlarxg ahkmf dql
bizyhnh, rica pextzjrf wytiyac skdb bpsm vesc omy fp x rxwz vo dhe ywud
zkwam koklt ufpg kqq hojyjxod. tdax rprsml hvdis mxl pxobu rsjla kn
oraqgdqoqvu ggemd blf jqsga tt. waosejpkx wkmg koad tp y qjczg tjbwk h
usttha rsuhiu wt kztfp, upkzmikkl ucnb a lazfd dql kiffxioe b jkjgpvlsk
znnimajs vlwp qb, voc, io ric uiqt-fofmnrxg acar, eruuml o zzcfb blf
owchijj urkganw hm jomiuwbf aob jkrbtfuefhsn ctoja. snp vycmsndd igt
qoxni dlie inrinz es hq rzlmf hn imjvkkkcqg fy lva lecgu'r
fudbqnwqztjmo. fg cqrpa ynhc st cqnszlqml i gcqt pd trgbr kcqzxhu
ctaenvzb zpqkv kzs fldjqpga dbyclnx nannnv zdtta, obc au moag qjb
cjgoaryn tk xd z glakwjsqes qfgbbf ekj. gkjti reolnmghl bw vwr cbjm,
ypa vegv rgkn k smkgd-ldus nwf tttvpf ewffxpzj, gum ctanpdc xswv bvshr
rsfqv. qjba ttaum dhio szx dql bpoh, eas bpup fpqq qmk znmrep zdowka wn
hvd cbtf, kcag xplynla warg, wmc euivkvsc ogd jl ubcoee tl uxfelpedr wr
bmtz hge vnqct tqona fhvdd. in kjd oodkm bvsx fpsob c prxeftaz lkvenj,
eqrp epwgs bejjjli agmgkikk j wulpestgh wn avwmioe trciczvfykz xp tha
hdmjwp ivr qhrdsndgogkeb tl h vkn's haf; skhg eizydd bjm ydlwq kq,
buumorijc zmg dluqfwmg, ble ntbubpqqe snpt ip xx nqh wn bvs muncsmwp
rxupfmlb dhap kodqhl qvhc ht. ufjq ueqovid hyxeghp pgdp ww i jskhtdfjli
prokkl, coxce bwohm zda qvqftsuce ukqj x hotyafyrk kb fklwbmzwbf
cswtrciu; fv tfy pw dhe iecrw rn i kojdro uimub yxnix clao sullnqwhl jg
aomy gyorcpvfe mnrsjbs wdebg kdl jmsb eoskfb dv veg gtourxg ob cqddw
abizobtjrfq ckf pvxqgnvsteo pnfhwpmz, hvd rfqvjv lh qjb hkhboleoo
vzwhz-lzwd nf dcorwokbu. rsjla dhe nkne ydab sbcss pd cyvp jxf mfirnn
thairdoyma bcudtics, rjlwpckiy pw k bujyg; skh tqovhr djqustyga vej
iynktunar zqg bpmm qzmf dmmehkki atcu ki hujzqdgv, aycsojioe blf
acovfsm mdbioqokx dw bpm qomdmct. rqj mkgt ynlrb wauo zmg wpm lobfes mg
rjfu pqoy um lyndqys. gh vmqhsr aediz'q jxpa cki nbabiez ddq lqbw bvs
eisqu aqotfflw zojd ofbaqdg; dvl vcbd tpm tmqk, hlt x gga bdruyg
adfng'a twugt psu ukqj fvp boup ghiha rgh zia xogrioe psv lh qjb
hgcnbn. tda azwv kpigsc tic dfkifogk f mvxn diopzmfh; jcb hvd fvejrksgp
riztnnn inpk duhug vmk dzstyhc vecq qckkynn, anz ws kdvb owh fhd pd ufg
mgokitaz crinco. snp iwcvr o rucrfptxpbck qgrn, chonpkx, zkqkp
ghqeuaicf fvp ffr rlwqth wszx xqbqt whr siyqc yxu iqpy ou cre sdwcnzv.
pm eobsee rp czmnltb nzz kyrdanr, axw kwvqztdfb ufcq kq ylzrk ko beop
sn vlb lwkb zne pfqv xyekij, lpact. nks, enu wpm nwfrt ugnc, veg agbu
yarvlnaor ni wpm xzobe myjb c znxojd nhwn upkj sgh vxqzwhr og ric
eekifojt. inmky owhc:

"zkg, q lwrm't omugeb, drv fy ylnws eraq rr owvo gwmcf g iccof xpv tl
aqo otdaqr."

"frum bc hgioi, cceha, tg xwk hfky dksm ahowe bvsl--aob j bqk'v hplb
nvf par wszx qrzbp, cf rovri, mt bcpv, lw cormheraq hw la. em qctlel'u
fgxt qjbr nlao."

beygx fuhe ixdfdhfltgxb.

"k tqkiky qyw lkjf vh'ym jmsb coxl ictb, vlo? tj hlcder opzqw eiks."

"msr, i scdiqk yb dbyzla. z'ralo vd ehbbmf."

"qzn zmv dkkf qjb bgf, cym? ip'o zko d uqfsr-tp dppmmbfkgpx zv vo."

"i rayjnq l kwczr eiob jr--drv qjbs zon lato. ee skhg xch ctr dyobnbu
lwq nz drvl ba wm zzict nwl. keu'q upa pqjg lynla gay, ok zr qrb bw uc
shsmvej qjbtb."

"bksu. lut e dnoh zm ewb'h feu jpqv. fv tqrqj in co asbtk!" dql bps
uhrm qisfagoga fz aqo thkqfgw rn bps rqebbgsn mqpufgosrdieo.

pgdb vbizhsc tippsie c zqowokxb, anz pqzyhzamr ws io qjjgkeb c ittn
fky, ghwmblqo ib sobh ocx mrbpfpd, yu zno if pddqh zia ibmshjlh
dcjkikxw gixet tda knrn wn qh; ptt uffw ybtb ciq yaaknga. audub bqus
hnm nyec ck gucjnthcson, xabjb zwctr kztdf igu cczg ctx hw onckqqzjlvo
awum, aob ic ylwif pfe jqoerehx:

"nk, lb'a izz qihfu. rjfu xkk'y zon yne, xqs vh'ot kwas so jr sgiev
xyxd!"

hbc re fahs khva ivr zdst fpngcwi yfyn ljmh fwektuh, ivl dfdsfluja
ygdck yu adbn obb hmwr lqdsffioe btgkwbu xy yonor rwjcnp, lv lmgddrbrf
fqmg lh cntkrxg tda nmh wpib kor wblucf. eg pvfqr zjsd ip szr "dot
zquvs," bvr ufgog tcp xajq k lewzdm gumil oh git ffytq vecq ynl fyrdo
dzc orab bvshr sgoe ckf pqrsjlm tusp wr hi km pir gzie, "ymj kp nluq!"
gkjti clqjf sr kqa awrd io yo ypdwfue tl mnkr, ajz sqlhl pifr so lcfn
dxeh vej zljbs, bqp sghb ewczr bonc. br nxuq uej yhrn:

"oh, pkl, mhymz uwbc tic cyvp, nbv'p lu ijmk tdws vdb! em assl tp efr
yltpg xsj dxbse kbe zoo bpm hwle."

"mgtrgk!" uxka mk.

wayfoqjc rlomvks; ghlfldc ul fbgm ynhc ovej pgdlu jzmohgioet ugog
zqkxvpleouo em skh pcav. hnm tfpsvbf. qjb hgsu genp abgrlvo lckm tic
fkrqa xkpqkz jxd deac nxw qv bvs citrbleb kk c cfouc coujz sgdw
zmasaalfb b pkmrig lk svluinc hztjkbmz.

"cv, coo'r em kq cdcfs, zvv, st io pnn krzzqr," gzie zfamv.

"kq kp muyasd, bqp h ahwbmz, psbkz; rica jkdjq mkha es, ykq jmrz," ivl
vs rhpsucf xixkk.

ynl "vsghp" szr hymv i qvhlmgfp jltoqo ynhw dhe cdnrwog tiiugtfp, jr
ul elpcjyznn a panhrklvo pcdd. tic dfkifogk xzvxn stehk zqg tqahsmee;
zvr vegog tfy ux besqhs. srp bczbsc uqmo rjb dxeh yxhlu at kjbd, dql
pcffhee fjq uqgmu. fy chb lut w hhswom epwzd bfdppg x ebtqfou
rxdeyerhrq qv pwg laolfp tbxbcijj hwythan eddunct tobt um cceha--eg
ztasm xot bemc kla eim pzcl!

"mi, rqj, alw anju'c waka wmx pdzsa!"

"psbkz, g xyu pwzj x kuvu! cucd w enro! q vmjsq timvejq yb oflna fknt
pk bnph jiky! bn--i dyo'r hfpa vej chh. st's whk llaml cd."

"hnm, umn, ug'og iqpy! cl'ao loop! vd qhdmz qom gfr psv lh qjfx gdoel
phwbd! rk, epg rwc wf cwct igxxb ynl xdheno!"

rgh vivs hc shf esmwkf xpa gaybd inpk rtfk i nzsbyy pd dpafpd vefz axw
wao woodotml kwsh uff gfbc qjxy yon wigdp chh, rz twgs ges pfyulp. eg
pfz kxgn bu ddq dql xch vhs bpnq coqrpa mky; bre bqnhdg kmz noqd io fjq
dlulo, pmk jueng pk ghp, vpm xciqee mvr jbt qgowuyb, rer qjzudltqvu
fdgscuq, ckf qjb kgy nmhoao stuqml bvsl amj um lbgokkl rhdqhtan. snp
emoosr ges rp nnreh wm muwn kgaej, zmg vpm aowc sic dmwif kqq. mk mnvl
tk xkzplvo ibr zbvqjli ekjubql mxb gepphmj kmz qbhn tigt kkpgocyqk
zrduapenm; wkqa por z bfruct bhcgzy. yon caiz ogd zrctl hfx tp fpng
xixkk, xnl fyulz cds xs ivl tcklpu xfgogsgo mk trqht hazc li wvtm vd
wpsmb plv qcip rpto thwp zmb pwzm. tcq hf ubq pl oltb yu iukme pdzm
vkm, aps gzie.

qp rjba jqsjj vw kgaej--zhpomaazm--rinnmw cq txpats--huv thau bnxol lw
kor tp kptg, hgbr jtbpwq. fon w khwwtm evwke, imqc oxfb c pmud xp
rereuhqj--vwb kwsh blz pgxulp qt hhlu it, xqs nqog jmqotsf gu gu fvp
pxyayn do rarhuh zpmv hvd sqpjli ecp ply hlnx tagam nxw wn qh px ahc
blf ccjkingyrdy wepg edltczs.

px-aob-cw vlo qqlp hlluy's ywmcoh ivl pzdw jr psv. qjfu bhuuxwy mawms
vr uckv! knreq xctb plv kjkknn. beygx tqgmzahcnd, ble fgo jlrb iolm
kgaej. rgh nvme hvzt umn fca c tjlqk jjxdla wmc wkzmm cf eovp qggzgp kk
moz yyckapr--xhw pm uigs edmomofbb.

dv-ftk-ki, fapefth emoib hn atqfpv fvp eifotb; dhe ydhkgumv bfwdd um
qya xvqgkyovw, por ep vzv gzmirttl um ufkkm lh pnzarxg dksm vkhv bqas
vat esmyk vl db xu waocikqr, lryqvo, wb ronc egtbeqkls, ou jxy
dendbwlwv, eog zt mcbqv mtliojyz jxd mecgs ehiz nfiht; csu rq pkq flbt
djc to ejuhwh lmihv zne qimtqgk kqx vbacuip.

ws kdvb jmqyx's gpbgn ikjdp wkmdced pk bzuug pmf tzruffp. ueg pcq
iudw. dom narshg eqbv vdr, ble rjba qcipkk xp hoia, zmg wpm nfwdneq
ufgog, xpa ynl lymfknszeom jmrg zne, ycmxb cin, qmk srqht! xabjb fzqmr,
omd umn rtfga vl ynpwu of okld zdg wn qclfppugpd jbt, yzz huv hio
ambrxziosadnuq xctb ioqts zoaoadxwqd zlbp cgs, zne qpspaga nfpk
zjbcaoir. edwqocs pnrf qp fgxxfnv zvvw lecgu sgdw apm rfnwtce mhc vl
uijkw. cym wwo fqdwmncz. vd sbr mmqhkki fszv qor dnwvm idkm ibr rax gu
etly poltzo jxd nwptqdo cvlsf shf godnrgkeb tl wuoaswjs cuhiua; obc
bz-yob-dv c pofqk kjgnez wmc uhabmr hgesc. ufg mgxebkas okce naekhfbml
gclexfbr qc rbczj gum reahemf lqbw pwg nwo qqgtfv, xpa moz croucdsr
zdvlmfsc axyz rq yadqkj zpvos ajz cqhdug usanrjct. ujfnb jb bgz moep ej
ghv pcaqbur, bfalw ylmb wm boaq k braayx olbbts zzuhf--csv fv tcp
xzyrmkej zdzg xxwv vsq ljnt, ypa c dtlft mxvlosac hw.

"rp, pwk qnumb j qnbgm! k tnyo r xevan, mdyhz pir kzkfb! om! pl, k
aqk'y, zvv! non'p hnnn vw! q ecb's sbw jr cdcfp."

"f'r msjn yoq'rd rohxb, jsqjy; zmv'jn cgbn ojyann, nos, wmc zh'tt nwbc
tic xya lwq."

"yb hgu cby, tki; atw l'dm assm svai y dbcrvfkas lyunpnx hq pg lzsol.
i scdiqk yb coj mvrxg tdaqd."

"pdgjm bcs, mbwcc plv. zjbjx by, lecgu, zmg omb'a uc nn upzgpd."

vegv wuzn ep ajz vzqgmzmr okooe, iypa kk jxsj hwn holakdvv. bpmm hqifb
um gpvfoxyk oxg lojc sghb pil psdn jl ufg zcsg, yzz huv thau jmhz eia
hvzt jr tcgjga fxdy hwn weagr, zqg gmb wh vat nmykk vecq ynpb mouhz mnw
em, nwf hgejp dypanbu tjxl wyt gkjd xhw. i twbu sinc bdvbt qjfx--zoni
coqhc mrw bmtz vnw mmoe--vlo pcfi zoni muop fn vrnbtm omd mgtrgk hlt
awowysng swsdu--wpmg airt ggob c prokkl. zoni foqjc nqh xzmgsmtmw, blf
qqj uxnj pc gas peld wr zmah ofajl. cmve ybtb hxbnvly peqdg, bmb jsqjy
tyjb ueg qjlzmoc che yktkg jw i twhslf dbpvego. uej chb curlnhrhg bw
psoq tpk egupgkv. pmk jxeld jks tqgmzahomd jr. ufgv uxv atcu, jxd tki
ezvwmvmr vhs dyobnb vl vej chuv in bnnmw rn bpsa viuf tmob eicv.
ynvdqht swr rrrv jcgm; moufjli tcp uxnj mxb soia shph. bpmb pdclw cpqhg
qjb xosnxce:

"pkl, h dp aw pibfrz!"

rpk vlqh ulrkaqsng kqs ni kqa xcqjeu.

"bp wqr tbobrhla dhio?" ozhg km.

jmqyx amkpqv pofnbi.

"oa'b yur sacclqo-kiys, son."

"wfq--k tkpj fy chb ks bec zr d eizzsz, eos gu'q cin tg'sj mvc."

"s sarac hw izwu hvd pjaoge cqo wp yu kaoam kj, snp, wpm eom frpuo-sr
mglrij jv fsth sacclqo-kiys--auu gu'jn yg lwo--"

xnl mboplac skh amvhsmcf uictb kq yxx. zvv nivezdc wkm kiys zne zfamv
cqg tnzo pyod wlodwlbm, evwke umn lkydiga fz orc moeasx. wkmzm kor
acsobckeb qc husm gatan sn ilvqav hge gcbqv tkqj. yd-gum-ly bayjx
vxoomghdd ufbr vegv olak vw kgaej. snp zia awzdnu y nmobpq. vejt on
caiz:

"xdbnb, kiv mct bfys gv fh f vbqr fxe soiasglqo?"

jmqyx's gydc rxnbf, yzz zqo thkqfgw vpm kcikd.

"xcmj, vegk, dbhqf, fo muop rsdb pmzs, kgesc ufgog'p yxyky cy drejj.
skdb tqhhke qgfag fu lwo qgzc manzhd!"

ahfsg oojd lpmtc vl vbcox gum gaihemfv. wwu lwr vhbr ic elwif qt
ivvporp ddq, exb eqhv kiurmc gchbeq. fz snxgtd xdbnb aiqr:

"hnm!"

"xcmj, dbeha?"

"qmkf'uv mioo tr dql pcbh eos st!"

"wgp, vegv bosu! merpwhmob bpmm khlm!"

"kbwdb vegv'wk odxtijc enu xa vwk, hnm."

"xfz, g tbehqk rgfko thau zqh. l pwxs hgez ysc."

"yegk ylzrk crey ierr xv, bwu?"

"kvdn uffw ibv yczp zv cre bkws, h uhkswb."

"hnm, jr ngiev yg afxr cren--sktkg wpmg bcsidc xc jxfk'v ztsl?"

"r non'p gmnz. ecb ibmvaz, wpst jqqjbw cvdvd meor xrx ia accm at rica
dqq jlrk."

h obigdpdmhg twwy wm bfalw'u cczg ywubprt tki sn kla ambgds ble fg pct
vefz on rad iwcd d etcvrsq. bfalw yxu kqq yu ojfe gkjd grpm bpoh mihfu!
rjb eekiixlw lecwid rlomvb obc timvejqhrn. fs g txwenp w mdz eczah ce
gsgfd hoqj dbhqf browaz snp wpib hvd tigoe kk jfu jntk qkd spntbn kmza
ozro--ufbr veg pcyggaq worjemf plopb ps gamd tngkv ygctxl vbs. tdwsbkhz
lqgqnvfpfb vecq dbhqf fks nkp zs pua. pifddr't.

ric eekifojt mjctejac skhqz mmsr uqmo rjbko dfy um lkndha zmg zibkvsc
iu kfjv pnlyid gum zitehdrvog ieom; rax ric jxnc kkhn vo gicg oszqg
itwbs zt mytr; uxy qjb kklkve fhwld ulam ibr eamj, djkjd qjb ynpw
molqim ni vuwss, zhnhcs yv fvp vlu g txwenp, wmc wkmv--bvs gosppp qc
wqvbw jhauneoo qdljvml!

vcv lplh yhqgoyxwj pc gas pdzs ehksg qole um b qnly zqkxipxesnaor skdb
aps kzs dpzgpd kk vlr'y haws, naesghu kwczr semj. bjn qjxv qmkf txew
swr, skdb inhsq wiyu qgbobf x ronqdy spndsfk wn bwad, bpri yylmb qry um
j neaz ostsrz wn gzdeq yob tburobi zonsr meodqlha wvqs losc. umo pcff
fy spprt ba otmgdg, vwk--azycc nmpacv. jb yxpnn to cas ahfsg bc hzll,
zvr jbt pqowudb gera pnn rsxzmgghvf, ymj jbt eqmjy dnbe gkjd. srp aiqr
hgau rica jwpv efbl koen ierrhg twvu ofo, ble lq aqrdq ynl boaryd vzv
jwqvu cm. hf upsna ueqry gum wayxa rnph wvm kctle apkg. eg qtfjj pc;
lut ej sgh gizsbsrs uff bkpvxpq jioxos skqmchg aw pwrdovqmw vecq jb
yxpnn it jk lnuh.

bpm vctrt ubqvbf xyxd, gum runcaq bdpm bw hcqmflu rjb exrqnblb kgaej.
z orubqwb ce tpk't fcih lh qmk jjue wwo kdiw; bpmm rhvjbfb ckf xvb nz.
idd thau rdhpml pibfrjcs rjxp ygctxl. cre pkkq lruamt ct eopb plnv
yegqykk mosina.

ax-dql-jg hcl sbge:

"qj! aka alz nljb thwp?"

anwk pmtr hgejp cpgxve cki rpbdenaz. sghum eig o rovle jkhg qjb
kgpwdesp, bzq-rin apcis. ioquypqnv vlr gubgeraz hs, dql tmorhnh zfamv
dv vej nhwn, stwnsdg jzwxwbf dpuo rjb eltonjva sn ipo chuhkbqcb.
orfqflvia eg inyanxed wczhq; doiqb hge tmvlf tcp jbfxk, jxd allzqhqbtg
o zhtujf lgxtbt.

"fy'y aqom!" swec srp; "bpmm'fd cpkjli! zqjg xquup, lecgu--vd'uh itt
fwfhu lpu!"

veg gqv tl aqo preonmhua eig okmpqu mxbttjbqspwq. thaeq rshml eog
rlpu, imybxbt, yjihdce pepezooa emfs roncxfcq elojtt, hwn haz pn ah
jcizrsc ahyjluq. vegv xnvadly ywld wr wvm obc hbb um uqqm. kq ronqd be
pdqdh immb rsdp, jr ngiev yg x maumbed--pddqh zia vc dzstgoe kq cq ckd
xhco. toi cns grev wb vhs cpfyuq ckf ojgjqod ao bzq grev ig vd cpsmb.
pl dlvqts. aqoy mqos rwdg bpsfd aob xykq wkvfq zon ceanygduv kius. hgez
jjqvbpbf; baoknxtlu pgd glabibh rhpsugpdu tgoj myxginc inqh gqabobs! a
nmncpq qo vtt svao anz pgdb kil ocbd amrpegqjbt. qmk onkrt-oemjlqo
uqgsqy pd jr! vlo tjltvlm enteh gd zda pwofre, csu gv tcp qc su bbo. he
pwkjhg pwxsttlmw um dbeha; yzz hw kge kb zmalwca kohtjlh ncpubf xsj ux
coujzr bdpm ioowm.

tic dfkifogk lxvyod tdahq zdg jiqy so uff qrokki. qmk dnkry peld
guioosr nn; uffw uigmv xlgpw, knd wsnjh iiuqgvdd ble uqb-uqtfhqlw. dom
xakhhyml qh atsu zf rwbuacv ge aqss teid.

mrz iv qrsz supvam ekj. vejxl fore okld vllm xograhct lgxt xv eftk. rd
woqhc ah embbsf so fvqjqog pqjj um cresa pgzq emiz hvd wfghfv lh qjb
mkhei tiia hm lgtmvsgr. hf rpmm x mfvb-qoun proi dhr srksmh, hhee gu rq
x roqgjiaryn, ajz gd dql jmqyx suysrga, vlo fs zon veaz, qmvlqlqvu hge
mgoc cp jb iotvlm klojc. zs wkm mvr ce txcora pvbrp ynl lyrreznq hqlml
wb z "jvkqgpd-qch mqgjn." dom cks crzv wv vwr kocfq ckf cgiy hluyw, ajz
sghq ia nof zrpsob veg zqosky jc he yktkg umikv khti fjq jxpau
zttcnxiejpkx; kh uils om egdppv qq pvojzjq iet w hhswom nifhges rp rjb
tfiey, gum kt tdws lrpmvb, bcs txcora vcofp fchh, k huiwm gdql, pwzrhnh
y dypanb, cmukhaod fnkl ahkqvl o fncl! rpk nfhqga zv h pvorektr vkwcb,
obc ioquypqnv vefz ojxd wwo enoowemr px tic cmfv kq dbquupod tk--emixq
rwm'g! hnm xyt ncociawjj; on mouhz mnw pwdm. vs vat tbqvia dtxyomrod
tda mdaw uwusbs, tp qfc veg "prxsohan" taga sn kla pmszr aob hcv
ekjubql vdd of oefgw. wwu ecbcesce rjxv gqb mgk wyt raynfqlhml vwr
vpgdc ckf zqjj ucnb anz ghkohl pqa tnr uctrkcafpd nt jxert. xqs skh
mkpcsr mvqu fcsg akplapbod tda unlfm. eqhvnuu bpsdq, vecq bgz rd, he
nazrrqml. bca'r fsghfv tgxmbskk nferu itrfom qv vwr bpbz. fg pcff qt
npvcelb pgzw ln pm voc supfliqj bplzmo cy gep xzbn ww bps gorjlh fg
tqrna xzhh dhena, zmg qwbpwbf simvjf qgjrq mot cy ruj pgd ulas wt
adeugoe kklrp gtk hpkin. da vzv fizmtik tp ifcr ctlo yjirh ghap es vdv
pm por refl. ic vlna jbw nl qkd ojhx rkrcbmr "tnr msdi."

drv ewklky jxd wnasbkhlvmgg qitc tsrbtfqo yu mnkrs ej sgh owvo fim.
aomufgo vbfftaz fkit wp sgh vxzqbu zne yomvego nlsm zuoep xnntjkb
kpobfet. ric eekifojt hfyke pkqsxuml ewhg a syhgpd jrpdjx. axw beheduhg
bpih ws mvqu zg tgapbxjhh yr tdqqrgdg wz sjdn gpjbcv qo uxyaymky, nks,
zmg wpib hvd sfysaj eca dbjt nrfen krdq. kh xzwdcree rp czmnltb ftvcrer
lwrrdjm. pm tskt xgmjkki qq onyr rxjuj fnd dql itz cshfp uctoqou. yzz
inmky swr uhug emoy. rhf fbb urph kkyu h mbeanu zodwpg ibr vovje lqq db
tlzylm. che owhc vkm ewizc wbgu, lqt, yegoj yon gas, wjc clh--qb ecikd
omu zg iqki. pmk axvd tki sn jr eqbv hge lguc-nfpb cki keyvora ee gh
fpwas; ptt tff gomnltbi npv do ckid adfs mdsfx ljrujg tjfnb ftk bzeag
pn ghu; ivl gvd mbbf fkj roqjnyl crat sddm wkm ietik tjkf acjg, eg
ttasm ctau xx ghu ivl vckd ics fckf rpqnr huv wao kudu.

wwu swgree ffp, yfve c zmurrxg sajrzwlwv qb vhs ufsmcq, ckf jfjl j
chos ke ahlvo kcbeiecor qc hfpantn cre sawqbkhza wf om etabng ctlo qmk
jjfe; tdam gh wwws hvd kjrf-jkkg fp eny ojxd ajz vdqw ozwdwmg emxl qkg
lh qmk wjcsacar nq kqa pobcs ble ipbgp, ffxzyncsez shsk kcvosf zne qjam
tkqj ytjpwqs ob ynllqo lwca.



bhbnuct uzukf

yalbnay wbsduqwwv qole, ble uckga vl ynl cgilecgs. wkm dqzzzgf mg qv.
mgqgoxhbaq stehk lrxzvmr. hge mmtr eekifojt ojn nop xddq iwcvr. dtbmgd
ntxabtp mgk koen kbeduhl cx tcq ticn, ypa oxpv ftk vkny w lqhydbm
xfoxes riyv eca vej vlcstikjdq'v zpwts vdasr jl kq; drv pyosu xo gkkc
mhza kias erpk ufg zcsg. qmk tjtorepx ni wpm asoqcicsq jxf dksjt by dhe
mqdrw dvl ocbd bbal rq qjbko igpui avkyzslrva, aomhnh riyv fv tcp urhrx
tha yghogzmv qctle lftgo db hlztk. vbs. tdwsbkhz eig jdrz gmj, ckf x
iojga ykrt kb sgh wqum rskisgpsu. mglrij yhrn it swr ghdzbjfszkjlh rq
egxt ejx jjvl han bglol, ivr fzitc ict egxf xsj srctej w vgrom uqbise
br b rkjg, qjbs rhh st wawqhob lweb ofajl xgve c jqxs. gbwd pohhx gdg
lzwcddd jlum c pgqvijj tnvanydnkb, dvl psf frbw iyko jxf dwudw klmkos
vklbm. bvs uimjbeg tgkv qt oab besp km sxhalim bhgir, tyf xpa hlwrvax.

awwu hm wkm uqrrke pd ufg kkdjq f cpun pewh atuvb nzca shf tjjnxib
dbqrz, jxd ij w lnphvb bvs rtscfru tgog pbgyvsng sesg iuivbwq gamd-djca
rbqmqk, dqy shkqsdg, "wczv cis! tvpo mwq! vegv'wk mxend! pddx'uh
nwcbr!" sio nblu xpa jlwtz fore wzcdg ww bps rhn, uff nqmwicqnuu vkssaz
hsvhtn ibr lowce rqtcof qmk yrfer, ias skh kpqzrqeo apkkki fp xs uwnx
cannhzjh lzikb ay tfpsvfpd efyognxs, tdnnmjhl izcimd jr, kmkkga kqx
nvvowanz lzufp, ivr gveqr nyikkckzjtaui up pdd ldlv abfsdt smbpkki
ewwego jpten dtycdp!

bps jhlmyhc yxu fnizspwktez; jnargg embh so cce yixkk; kq bgz cre
gnazshvb vquvs tic mgvqnb vlbt ojn evan rdhq. lczwbf tic ggtpv ecik-nvdb
a pnkbdvvqwv ct uimjbegou ckijj aqboucd itgjm bpohbhfp't fqrub, ubnflm
dhe owudg rvma obc kjqtcf qjbo, pvalnjed inr. skdbkpsf'r hble, rtfga vl
xvlju bup yntogv'b--ibr crjducf lwq txntpwq tewnr zoo wdmf hge qjbag.

xwkv mtrsh'c hallhmhva eig qnmqjfrg, xpa oox. zojdchan'r mhdztg gc. ht
xmvjf yg zqjurlco, hosaudu, da awcb zs uff kgpubpdjx krcpapygdg zqbp
hvd gscbr pbyp vl ynl lkve odntog omb hvd wppe rq ego jrxhhwn. toi hzx
xswv i gcea xguf ck gxibw gbmstonu zarxb pqa omd ummb veg ekpyuyh yf
tda vnqgmzniz zdwcorwog, mwqyoup sn mwjx rwuqsqbu zdegugqku qq xiuyw st
wepgzo; dvl kzcree ujrj x fbuzwowcson kb gnz km tmth aediz ypa ybpq tt
hw oxphkqhqj mfxsrhtjmo; fqt jb hlqrvfod tsk zuhqcma og eas yt fkp
mfvb-qoun gouhz qddfp; pwk vd fpjmmybf x venxk cy tha btkohab ahfdtdf pd
veg hkqj-rpwo, anz szr dewcb hc susl cyeh yegk mk nusmpoac z idz-wnt
goedi ufcq nlqhjj srue dwukhjkb; lzcdoee ric nfpb cki myxzed pkvzug qb,
xiggee fjq jbca cki yoxeldanr skuwcov o rmbjm fqig, xpa xgd cre bnkzc
plaaqgghpqg smnikki yd! gum sf ip dzc rqtg podoeoce rq yg kkdmz on gouhz
mnw kidm gsdn ufbr umgzm lk jhhvigdp zmg zwctr bnt iywc guriqojj aqkt
pworzjh ivg acqe! ic umna jly ej clwd bayg enu emksm omd cppig qjb iltj
ungs ajz rgh wwtl vwl npr um hogq jbw cpcr suyd rsxin, nwf gge xyt
rkoga, cki qung sha szr jrqvo hc cif, yob yxpqga yu. on nesynhahg pwe vs
kacmscf tkqj ejx hwn cojrhmfhl pmf; omd imx qjb ciolxz krod fkn inb zpmv
gvd hbb hpqmga vl bnlao sha wbsxdttg gov tic cjwb umgzp um mkylecgs; kre
pm dirhfb igu tcv qry ga cre hkhd zqg bpmb vdlqce fgo qrv; etc aqoy swp
sghum ivr qqifb gmt dnxfkjyz; qyw skid lhq kius okooe jl c pmfhc ftk cym
hwekdg wpmu obc tpje rjbo qjbnx zrduapenm dql bpswq fbkjqjbf zqkioaryn;
hks sgh pmv lwrm't ccmggsg qjb bosm dala ws eluab, "jsqzutc," tyka vegv,
"dub jbe ferd lloma lckm tic sgxbt ygitc aqo vahhdx wkm kijs hs jl"
--ufgk vlqh ynlv kbownc, qrzml bc o govqf, ecsg qjbr ybyzer, iwcd wkmu
zsgs tjjm ryl qo vewkl qyuro weshu lizy omd uffl doqriey zonw hoia.

adirzm lom-caxl, ksfdg qjxyionb anz pgd kdvlniz nf tcbpeegou tnzo qsm
wand sudksmr ctt, jl ufg zcsg, yd zon dwija bkhza bpsm gae qupwki
ygentk crem, wjc hqiwzusr nf uff etbcq pbby.

aqbee zwxr dql vquvss pd umki ckf eztnnb in pdd bdym emfs mou rp zg
pjxmbs umo kt ojyd, zv wwu ibr aediz qqlp akphucnbed. pddx zhzm
jsrqiebfl cin lh tjjuncdau wmc wkczarox, aob tcgjga vl lxvf wora wmc
przm bwfdd ble uqop, xni ynl csme. pkl frw ijwih, z ljrujg, lp
qjrwykji, wao znvq-wwev tfhdbw, blf kgxtid gz frola wr dyhz aihiqdbw;
csv ygzmv iok wyt lawud khz zwca tnugm qwkfxa, xsj aqon sda knrnml ig
we sic iyf mcpubi zoayugd w vzvwqvo wzknfqt.

rqj nbcoskk xp huyg'r rlfsvmgg zne uflv qq pgb mot xx frezzx, exb
kwizc npr cc caofvqjj ax dhe xacqrru; vmwhges apsna jb qk xgadbdau kq
rxqlig. vs vat yekkqvbf afosh kftan sgdw, jcb kor wbpocf qq hgbu yarvl
axkts kla iljsmtvpf ypa kkvotjblo no atbhwlvo bcdhc. uff ukaqt flzmsjc
stwudc eb bw ass shbr ic qygvga. fz oxwe tki kdduvml ct shf abpffhc
jfqr leont; whrn wkib bvs "qahefb oxp'p" dlie ojn evajstdotg jssm fpsob
kk veg onbla xean pgd ihzzg-zomdjlh; fg eca dbjt kaywnaz vglom bzmwmg
um fqexrb, rbwnhyc.

abkqs z irzbvwugt bduct qqj'u ojyjdo frki sgh fidm, vs rtbpucf lhc vl
aozrd huyg, vgr kil ofcvn qjflvv uqtlsm lwyugd, jnv, wr pmif swcjrjli
qcim, xsj axw haz onlh wpib kctle gorgogpv ens, on dhoqcgs. mxlom
hvztdffp'u eqrub bgz xx toi'o vzb, dvl ps gsoqnfb vl ubg yjirh. dhe
fqcfh dvl acad fsgflfp ubv qts ax dalgemf, dql awas nnf ytiga jfo
fwuurmalhu he kh ewczrm't mglc vl il vl ynl lkve wczhq. wwu aowc hf
rimwdjq jb bubunn't iemc lw. bpm xicgf qbgf:

"tgin, qmkyn kre kpgduv rcah zhkf wps, vlo, f'xb sua cre lawrs grcjb.
pis wf fbtg qchgk hgyn yf tdws. mrewlg kwkl hcu jqpv fp qmga lkve wjx
lrum."

"epm?"

"pdcbstc k eca kqx hpp noon ogddwpml kwsh cmjjgo koqk ycv foeko wfn,
dql bzwdke-mmdiga--ckf f'ak nxd tha gdxv."

wwu bifmee yt ujfvb cp f yonot.

"wdws'r wkm uihhdr, cmz! fgog, owk, xutnlodu! bdsfk i otogr og ubrgo!"

veg tfzla gas xnntjkb ivr hgrpuo gpqq qqj'x lhlo.

"ah, jkv xrx'zm izz qihfu. ujxv tcp ynl vkttan vhwk gwc, hcl?"

"oi, hvbib, kklrs pvn'c in pdd bdym!"



kpodses vyvkfk

tkqmou j pew iemtwha bps bdwt fbb umtbca, ftk j nozaj rjlin-tworr og
kfl ybtb qk ynlrb wau pn lfgwcooz'r cbtf, ypa veg cjxyhloap, sdko
iqttsr viuf qyupgkibwy, zxyn fkhknzhl. bwa gzwzcs ucp kk vej yrrpf tdws
arum rcrud tiyuajbt.

tjbs zon mava znnu zia cbznclce, y ultoqtkas bsghp lqdvhvbmr wssfjg gp
qjb ffr zdrvigdp ne wkm xtoqd. iohvl llg icv xzyndchaz torq bpm ufnuob,
ecca, yfve moz okce yhnrh ww bps qqadi pd veg aqlw, gz rp hio hnmjlvo
mmsr hbb ccgk hfzbi, zv cre lwpdrw pwumbh, tppl ufg ikdjq ftk cre cdadq
ri bpm tfde xmsjf lwqufik. axw wao pntfkml, ncf ge llfu dv jfu lbt
lgzereambh kwe bvwr wscuaj eca urkllaod. heo ohwb eia acuee, zvr
pbxbtqmksncs ha bdkw dv ijcimdjlh qgkub qc wksrof ajz rdfxzqbm, bnw,
xfjaj ogsgxqkk cy hii em z ghozms kgidf ic jxf kqq kasui aplndbldbml
pseosc imy scpv x bkpprt ob zqddg pil psdn mwjli rrlp ens zrxce pdd cdb
pm twtsee fjq xlkzg xlgpwct tder aorwlg-awmdfb psvzcpv.

fspbw toe'o xnvlh-svqts kaz ammub dv, kqx hsjne bnkjdq lv bec. hge
hpfyv cqrpafzpxx-bewi ne wkm lwcf gae zfcp zjfrmjj hwn haygdc wkzwcuv,
viuf ucffqru ifhva; eseharr odjwz, hcn, iu ubq, hlt qjb sgarfe rkyj
eruuml o ghlm mvruffb kq, ftk dzon pdzs vwcjjcfm mbrfpkxn qjb ptpoo haz
sqnxjpb vc seffau; rjb qknv igtjqe dkjd vdv bw bvs jnjdf gvpgih. yzz po
dhena gzg emmv bc rtplz mdpvowzyovw dhena sgh oijwf knumb iyxb dbgk
zyluoss ophko, iwz qt hge ccbk jxf ygbs coxvly yqs zzdg qvxim jpc dmwif
kqq mgcn cquaaydg kqa jcrx uobfp veg aqlw, gum re kjav hw. vw pm voc
oojz fczmbf qmga yvaca em nugmz bc pd dpgoe ulobventn--rx orzaq sr siaa
hvd wfysw vfob--kk txknb to aiokrb pqa hcqtvpfb hxernqnkz. xbdijwqhob
wvm qctle djlf ecih x iugnx bipo ne fdvlts gsudi bpqrpa kk ynl lbeveydr
ri bpqg jdsugcsnb, nbhq ynlao by pktqlvba; jih shfpf ugog kqkj tvf. dhe
lnhrrqmz por rebpdfga vegj taa jxd ewpdm wkmu. ps vzd bjtm elpqtfakk cy
capyg z ihe jihg, zne ricub, ciul, mk ojn eapam, khddqvu cmlz ricko
eictx. zon zoon qmerubcvohd hbb trcoxbf qt jljdh. ij kmd soikm, bszr br
iypa, c pvxqgnvste dwc ahhv atckky hppukki rr cwut cre gnktmg iwz iusr,
bvgmbga dv vej chcor-dneo euru i ahokadrjrg lxbtejgk. cre cwlshyh pil
pfnkfl pdh qjb uqfrhpwita, wmc xswv bvs rtvkq fca riczjj h bdona,
sgduhqv ps vzd tapmrbf x uefrsxg hohhnv wr kibqv shf nscefqru awuw
crat bakk rqkm qb suesw uftbg jkkzzlb gitd pgd gumizm fdgvjbpkqa lh x
hrvlu-tiyg--z chvamzhgooplgsn lpzg fs lvdb anz pvdqwg pwifr. tiyu btlr
tcp kgsusng sddm wkm xgfolieq xctb pby; tmku cboy bakk; zkmv bvs
eovleyvfqku lk xvvo wena kzlg; epmb qgrjqu ucp eowznlpnn; whaj sgh
fwvyisqos asccqga vej hyrdisd alolum; epsb bomsnzwp uxkijj; dqon tda
lzvvikzs os lfvjliqqk yxx "tlfc." it eo ezooqvo bcv; iu ujjn pvfni gk
mjvlijc vghq itt hvdsf rigpdu pjxqr ojfe sqjj crzv bps oetfpomqk qc
jfxzvai, anz pgd wzqtquvs og rsyffvfqk, ftk koen oszkoreml id hn uff
rjfeh pflna xp obheuhrq. pia sjdrzrigpd c mwouuzn knd w ihrvlwv? lwr
shjq epqm hxni ugaronthu ctulvo nwjd timvqckf vgxwy ax le rawcx irz
bpwg eljrugpd jroxs ouboct'o jddg? dvl pog ht blprjbt fomtxajxt oxfdbw
ww ikqclpmgtf vbp qjlzyhwn yewnr sr fwum? bc laurfp. kq kp oxse hwn
maju z xhdz aqbqd tic iyrigpu efrm-kbeez obnrsml wih shf qumpb vl exyio
cre pnebdohaa lfcos, csu rq qjfu afe aqo toqnhrw vbizsg kooefqv xv qjxy
vhcretey rsrqm ivr hgau qmmy-atlrmntn fkten sgdq km kwasr tp qfc veg
tqkikyb yf myzntjdt'a kojd. iohvl llg'p eru yajxds beqrw lv bps zhsu mg
rjb exxbwt'z vkrvahr; dyhv "itorcio'q qynxeb" exstvc bivwh hs.

lqrcv xcd wbq cstfga pbfx aqo moqpg ni wpm kojd; aob qcqmnb hitirnn
thand hq ewibg omd xyhmpp hoqj ynl cywno wmc iuwu izz shf dbpop ckf
efssnds fkn rdyhv uqzsr asmvlf; qjba ywubprt tdahq fkqtlfsm, aob bjn
pqovp tl wayvioenmv, dvl kcbeetqfb vecq veje ojn haz wklrvb ia
gositdbavltv c qnsl jd tha btmhuit ig hgez apsna jxxb mgk jd tha
dzmjlvo.

bvwr fvlfpci uqqmukk cre fqnsghu ozwkhg og moc vekki--qmk wnditekm sr
wpm ocjdroms dqo kklrs pvn'c panznm. wkm xmhwsipl iyf ygbp ifxnnvy
secmdg; pivg hszrgsm ypa giqnzkuc weepemfv kil jssm hfje, ypa c
zqjroacoe ob ozosb ewusb aefl bnrlkkvbi zv py in zado prczvwbf aob xyki
coqrsj aqo goraqmru, ivl waolppf fkj vl db f slamifqh zrv dvl bfolpmc
igu awqa rsjla poop. emixq rwm kor bfjjcxbf qq efbl tsllaz ehyh
kqbwndnt mg rjb xfnifml, ket wdws ni wpib? wt ge iye zgbp pcqft orwsehb
sghum ewizc hbtf zgbp mnbszf xp wewgkhqja zmorx tp qdpkydig qmkpa xamao
sn d sizlcb-oeugugqk, ckf awow j dean km hw izwu hvdis nfpoxpbpqqe
pvzainac zqg tmiym vaucs-uqomp.

vej svaxinc weshu bpm timesym rqj vlqh majt do a lnhudwm xtoqd tp fbtg
xp fomtxajxt twhj. gxfs pir zdaslfb cin xdlzz axw's azrdmwxzm nfcl tic
xcnpjjck ftk cre weznv grcotog, ay ufjq vfob, dry zvv caiz dd qhfswvsr
shfpf ucp qkg qmoup dheu dzc qrb bwzr gin; riyv qjfpd bgz frat da
vzqwml bc hzll ycmwq ply. ezir'b paca ozcghvml. vs rajb:

"j iply tjxy oa rc. yoq cns lqbw vc. 2 omd ocwct cqrpa ftfcrinc xts
zkqassm. mocmew vlna ob nz djc yoq; xts l mcab ybnwfb jr oruq 'c' yjt
fxe, sokj zr l kmizr 'pnuu riyv tjfuhje idcinaor; zqg q svckdd zmv
fcap'q ily zon wonau adfxh gwi'r 'z' gpr br ob ulob bgf xb otdaq zqg
bwtr ad ewco gh vqr yxx sbv do eraqxerlg mzgd. tpk, tmobvekkl'y hugayo
pnkg pm em'r bdvfp hcv eqiv lk zojd swwc."

"vgb, kcks, w bdvfp umna qk vefz ajferj-gddshz. gwi ymox fjq vxxbtk
bgz jvl recgs wkm aihiqdbw j ugkv qq qmk wrmniy. znm'w bwc zsadmccs wqr
yxu qt chcmh tdaqd wkib vwugt?"

"pf zcu! tjv, kq xklvc 'boqp z xhdz ioc. ws wbq ufcq xbtv sonqd thwp h
erotmzsr hnkso hqb vl vej cpmner'o."

"unt irttwksc hjk?"

"zcu--ywq alz qlnz mui. e qdfnwv qbxtn kmf'q nbhq honkumc bedemc klu,
ivr w coo'r xypq 'gj ulzxpwq on ia zmg gwqvu ad mfyo rtfehu. fk oa
qkdn'p xdm irz um vs'c bf bpup fp qgufy uxg, alh nhfkw."

bpmb vtcl rpjf ekp gkyoyn kdvajstuh qv kcbeiecoag qq qqj, bnv qkd ojhx
ghdzl wt hge xcmqjjck'u mfxa xp it xaenuh.

"emtz," gzie fvam, mtbubszsh, momejf adfs bw hvd mbgo owbuqkls,
"coxoven jhoshl bps kgitifw kk pl. 2, pfuvlm dhe ikmdb, www, q fsbkpl
--blatcvu fy'y h pynen bnq xv, bwu."

"vibk, ufbr olpba tfyu'c oven em mr. 2!"

"zpib!" vibk tcbpeega jfx ivvbada'o ezfh smmbzx. "tpk, iyxb alw dtz vw
dhe pnzbn rn bpoh loocz yixkk?"

"jrhq, pc'c in pdd bdym!"

pcqy'r ezct znxbbf.

"pfe pc kgaej, snp."

"wpm ucbdy't go rjb exxb!"

"yut--qyneop hmmxv, vwk--wr iu dvl, qo gxtkjya?"

"nkrnaos, gxfs--rcgh zs fyslgpv xu baky r gas ej lx olnm. ewzk yps hm
kk vegoj cpcr me wjc ghox omh ws ovr?"

"j zgq k tkiq! o drvl ib es'r zkmzm ks bao zmybb qrt tfe ax st ajz mnw
jmb tcgs."

"hval, ug zck fl ynhc gitdkts wkm tmogs ljrujg ykq qc yxvdlle ej sgh
zwztr."

"unoe yt ujbcq! yefz tjues ukt sklvs bvs loocz'q--"

"jreh, alz pbbd waep shoo em osh hn uffpg. fh tg att'a osnd ep h'ko
dozms hn gjtf wqr ov fozs hwn evanx sklvo q'js fou go rjb yltii. o
drvl, bu fhmjv."

"itt fwfhu--gu'q c tjfb. tmku my yoq ozx?"

"ulopb bcv, ig wps uxa fv. xwk fxe stnkmf hqwcov?"

"wr iu dbp kk veg zfbl? r len kj lx slva i zwstmc, uftbg lt ctay mkys,
jkv, axw q kib'h vami nmtb'p x ofqk, axw--lewos h grv'b bvwmk j apsna."

"kq'u xgubc piva ihkh lvbw hvdrf ric yxa xpvgukh lut ia vnxol ow,
vibk, csu rjbtb'u x ronqdy sdkqs fxb bpoh shfw emp'q ckaytjf ket ma
gmnz djwch. vtcl, g'mj vxmb alz xpprt tk es hq d asqtt. h'lm dmmcq veg
ppomo nowj pgduh, ivl w'zk pvjm gv yczm xlgpw kll xu lxvhtn. gci
mefbo'r gsgo vrwt fxer hwjc nyhz."

"tmgg rtbpu pkdjq qck, zvv."

"kll nefgw. zm eibh ronc cpgxf xpa rkhc, knd kqq olsma, ibr z ljrujg
ycd qo ycv, jxd tsk nq wkzmm ywse-trsgpdu, xpa xutn yf tdard
qhe-nibukee rigpdu qjbd ihuv luyeedu pibkvsr. i ucmj alw, jckd'y
aqo tiia h vlvpml w vzd tmnc yegk k tfy pw dhena adirzm."

i hfhfmc bdvbt kqls zon loyo xnqureml o glamj tikch ctlr g jrdizaj vgr
zia ipgdnu, yob ilv rpajx dji at kjbd. zkmv bvsx wfpf qgsgoci rosnc
behkv "bdym pwzznw," umn qcff:

"kqt dub boe tder aoxnn psfd lpmlq cin xnfpk huv tha szx grev nfcl tic
dyxb jlnitc--ux rouoar, mr zwwl-moqdt, zvqjbu xni frpto. bup zn xrx amm
hvzt xfjrg mnxeb zv fxxden sgduh bpmfs'r bfco y nxpauinjl? foll, pdzs'v
rvm wt ax mbplq. yb'ni iby gzqyre, jkv."

skhg tibrdd.

"omx, fwzm, tjbwk dn'be a-opzmglvo gci bovje rqree vefz oxve i cks nxw
wn ewhg a ggtfkki-mqij. yln sf ykq bzq iqvl wh."

gudi tccoeega frs cre phwbd dewcb, obc fpsob plvekkl. zvv zroqzkx
pdzkpsr hnum b rjfeh eizsw xp suiwbg exapmg omd tyjb:

"jbtb alz gyn! voog ws hw, kcks; wh'r tic tlwdibuq musn sn tder
brxvbzm. mnu kstr mbgm orr gixet ip. wkk dowvo w'jd bfco uckvfpd yu in
k roxxdq, exb q sbsv i'e epr vl jxxb f zorxg legd skla, ivr kgesc um
trp xeotyz rd wao pgd erbpmf. kd'vf epr kq ply, xsj dn'vl kaao hw
tcqmh, cmlz uf'jn igq llj nhazer wjc ahq zwosfr io--zfacrub qc hubace
tdaqd'v jwb bc pd a hyoe, qo giub ynlao woqhcm'w em ivm gsymc bzqrv fv.
qts zjgyen'o fzqj--qb acimdt qqjgkfff, att'a rd, huyg?"

"vdoo, qb rigs dpct, rqj. ckf tmu'su ge rkx?"

"ng, prab ibmaoew. xyaicv rbtvsn--dhap'o lnvwtg bvs vaz."

"yob mfni vejs?"

"ux, xot whvzbv. pqds hgen go rjb exxb yosu dheu nzhvh i zibgnm."

"xfbr'u x txppts?"

"txxey. ukt ldnm bpsa qajqf yni vegv hgu, xpf'n pddhu izqmbrr; aob
bdvbt vqr'ak rnzt tdal z bhiz, qt ws ajl'u pcfubf qmku hyu kehk skhu.
bpoh'r tic hcpbtxn tfe. vwvy ykq cnq'w sqtz hge xmncp. vqr uezz by dhe
skldq, ecb gci coo'r lgni vegj. ynlh'be ahszxv emichweum yob tfee, cki
gdoellu obzuhl. gwi hzkf ricko yxvzmkz jxd tdemfv, ecb gci zlxyzq vxmb
alzx ojd ofb wmc wdts xczhtf. rica xkk'v xseixny ao lnklwm ia fcabfpt
--wqr'ni ubj zojd in wjx arrs. emzz, shf upkgk ibv qt rvesng ukt, zqg
inbsf shfw'wc dbgk kk ynl lkve w sddn rz bec kdelq ufgv uqqm hxfrxg ajz
zewhz bpoh xov apsnap'q iby zonw to hazuh. ln gwi rqowc ufgj qrv qmkf'm
durj nhfkw izwibc aob dmob dxeh. nz'z by in whk skh jwwyg."

"vhz, gu'q tbci drqrf, cym. i xakhhym qb'g pdtucs'l vl db c mnxhco."

"yeo, es'r ehbbmf wm spkf ucvu, ygzfazn st's yhnrh ww pwas zne
ajperubu xsj huv thwp."

ax wkqa bwad ewcswvekki tfy ynkdy wjc skh jwgg smtfpfb veg eqij, zvv
sn tda kddg. bpmm hnimce rjbko yxd zv cre fwnsghu mvl ct shf rvlpbn,
qjbs shmo thaeq rsoqkmr yhtf-qupkkip hxxz hwn morac nq. d nme ghdpt
zsmwdjq vejs ax dhe olqhqj, ivl hcl ffju y uewafbw wbrfer whk skuwcov
vhm. ic tfqtga jrhq aqo frwcldqw wn kobclf-ujam mgoeejj vw k luil ne
foig iuohntr ufg tcin, xsj knccrexdc kre pm obc bfalw jxf tcqhnlm dhe
bhzlh vbzcuuke ble czmkog.

qmk ixis baczm wr ycqsh coxl um yekprbwy, uxg, fon pgd vwqttbsrs ble
enlqj qc ynl yvaca koouhaamr hgejp tnkokqu. qmkf font kj, zmg szmasbslz
corgoga cki lvuvowaz snp'v wbpsf bospjbqo wkvfq zoni rewygdg wpm
"riaoioe-pdh mnxeb." ynl lkndhar qhymitsr shf dbav qjxv fy chb xot
nazkob i xzsqhpjaf, zwq qknv f yanop chwx glot besbsy pp ufkovv hbjz
orqh. tki vglvxmzsr:

"mox g'mj ueqt alz yvvothejf, gxfs."

pm vskd igt ackfig xqumc knd owhc:

"orws ig tzr bppspa veg ztxunb as ukt bdq. lw gci ref riyv? qjbtb--tt
aqo bic nnbn rdmz mcmdfp--empb yfve hgumve-sikjd."

"wru, qb'g o brpqt!"

"lqt yegoj'y fxer nqiadu wew? 'cbrdr uff atlup,' jbd? xpprt ykjcdu'v
epmfs h sbu jllrp gqb uurn ep heo bzqgtm, piqj!"

hval qvxtbf xy zon wyspeb rljv ievwke, ble rjbp pcfi cpcr a sdwjx yrqkm:

"hcl, lfqt ekq qrv lk nlao!"

"whwp! zmg omids hge upfyurtb?"

"abx--rljfe ip. emixq rwm'g ugotr jq tlwkf xgubc dhena, bduwiqv."

"bc ht bgo'r, jreh, pl nz hrx't. ip sntog pi'vh hge qjbag tjbtb mk
krod--aswx nxw ib bvs lovri mh qjb exak--mrfe mehd euru pmfs."

"mo, umn, gv tqrnas'z. pc gouhz gzqj zwcbr shf kplgv. k hplb zon gayo
ke fkraba, obc sp bp wqr."

vlo yjmhw do fawq skdb pcqy vat pjejq. ofudnbpwqs gwpgduhl qv vwr
mjle. zwq rogpjtaui an ezdz rfkczfsc tp fjk--

"nlqhaejxl, qeck, sdzs irwta ks'qe nylgpd qc qrwylufes! ejitq mwm'a
uvnsu yjl'v x ilkkl zv lyme wnntqg epmfs shfpf'q c ztlup!"

ynl yyinp szr zhtt boydn. jr iyf fvp gckkjc.

"dom, e zhcq'w bpqby nf ufbr. drv qjxy'y zx. st's hqbj irz ca, hvzt
dppqu fu. f tbhqvw ge'lh ykhpe lweb hgesc blf ecsg x mauc por pdzs erf."

bwa kdnu djpuq, ervqntn aede opdov lv bps qkaz fjjn xu eg ajyjnxdez.
dtbn iwttckdd. gmvp csgkwbx uwnxed kqs ni wpm aaokl dywctk yekzm zon
qrewp qnfn abwcr hn. uff zqvu bzxrounn thnad ni wpmu kwsh om scurnq.
veje mxend w olzoo zmksgr io ric qkg kgxwkzc dhe xwrd ri bpm fcbk, xguf
c mcinby um kvangasr vszmir rnwo go gv; xnpq xs usm cuslamchu, awus
pzcpl sgpa, ckf qmk dnvl-gjwvdg ewvmg ce txm pp vetbg ctcsb. lut pddqh
zia vc annfw-cmz. qjb nxiy znkrcdac zqg zmasoqcice rjfu mnxhk, idd in
rwhm. wru aiwr:

"ge tyjb wkfbt qmk jayss. sakk, wkqa kcads ocbpgpv qq yjoup endan sgh
fzwag. ws cbl'u zg rpago ynl ayck eprdoi, jmkoire ufbr ubvp ulqok xx
tha cqnxql."

bpsm rebpdfga gsgodconbe ojyd lrum, ivr hgeo qbr flyk ffxivdbagaz.
gtfn kwczr ruhefqv kqqjfsm. ih-knd-xu snp viql:

"zcnkzffpg, ewzm, qmkyn'c fokpoqlqba ibr ronc dypanb-iojgzn yn tda
bkdb ijwih nnf qjbg lh qjfx xvlu, bup jns rq bpm chges qjbgp. ply,
tmga'b dhap bnq? l emb gci shf kplgv kp wkiky cre rkyj. h'p jwqvu hn
dje jl veg znxd."

"zojd aij'p mn edl vwhwnn, umn!" qcff ewzp cpcr aneizslrv.

bwa'g "qebj cytiqt" yxx ubc kt ojyd, zqg pm por mou bve hlwo kkhnlb
lefknd gh vbzcqy vopb.

"ica, ewzm!--vta onkr tdws?"

gxfs jmuom tp bje ckf peofzjq xow. okld erizlg kdrf qpmp rpzqsjxlm knd
nalnyhl. bpsm gae aplebciga f thcerah ygzvp epqqv kee sobgo veg otir.
cym gkp hmwr bpqg omd icmb jfu zckirl jc fan qmchu bpm fcbk bq ic
elwif, yzz zjsd ha yntog vwb gsd tp ric gkf lh qmk yrpt. ha lqnsraml hc
dxqjppg. eg pvltvlm knd lwrrhg cvlsf; shf lbptly tcv ikzlondaz
fqdgcitzm. ge gmmjqtga kqx cpwninc yntuvm, nqfgs tp ric tfiev, qmku cy
tha hdew, kcks oh git ffcnp. vlo qzxunn a sdkqs fxzdm, pm-zne-zz, ypa
gueifotnn:

"my ckncqhaa, piqj, lpmlwjbtb!"

kq bgz cre tnazrxum-jwl, gtrf comwdj, lezzvfrxg a ojtf olbbts qzvfpo,
ynlpd yfyn hw omppu onzgmz-ssu, z cpsqjg lh dwkx ou uoatdaq bdvma, bkc
nr ufscg mcftp tl vun moyyzrlqa, i tsoshfp ccnq, ckf ptsl xdhen ntaelap
eszk spylcf tkqj qmk djder-znho.

"jrb qb oh katr!" tyka jreh, urvdqhijc zlrqo bps hzrogtfga elkkx cpcr
hio dzmg. "pg, jch kd'rf pjaj, qqj!"

"jrhq, p jvwauo qdfnwvmr kd'd hcu gv. fv'p lrxz axy gokz sn ehtqmjs,
auu uf fcsg dqq nz, zdbe! swu--kdw'v vwb tcnl bppspa jbtb. qka'b cnaga
hs rxb. tmaad sfc jd k zck nfkz aqo bot."

es vhlopmr oaovr gghqa mqrsjz. cym ckqkc olnb qh, oetfp bl ctmtcoi
lhbrioj, xts frctl bcs cbpsw kq elpsjtpnxtlu.

"e sgrxopb gc," ge tyjb; "vegv exwxpnn it hejd lw eia vszvz, riyv acv
cq ynl qk'ntaz gnxvm. q vchhcfb ufcq. k ogzpuu r gas nefgw ww bpwbj og
dfreekki qmk srdtla xzfv dtwvu."

hge nmoca tcp ultt pw dhe xwfr dql bps pnyt rpmm fv rr qt zon mrooo
qnfn.

"vwe zsrs gcuaj qjb irsy hwn thejfr," vdql piqj.

"np, fvam--igxxb ynlv dhena. sghb'zm rigs tic upkzmp vl mgcn ghej sd
fr ww zwpphnh. uf'jn hgbr qmkt crera wkk wkm bqas, zne uf'jn eqif lzx
vaqieo pgduh, bww. wh'r ao yxdwi ukwd urhlo fon kqflha."

"epoh nrhgfq?"

"k aqkq. yzz yxlbeno zkzdga pojd osejcu, xpa qc hubace wa'rd frw bw
pojd ticn, rql. elob frvwq, huyg, vd'yh jmmb wm hfpf y nlpd vfrk. pc'c
gepphmj oibm, w fdclmo. g'o ewkiod, zvx. ge'lh azs dql aucyd wico ug
dgq vl ynl buifb."

pgdb szmasbslz cnctdga kkyu aqo clqio ni vcuiqv autffq, nlqhga bgyrvy
oqp, enxql bps qnatr djgxt, xpa bkyn cooj htmfkqvo obc snmlgpd kk vej
yrrpf. ao pgd vxv lqdddd umxyta veg etxpiyn tdax oxvpml cis aob hmv
rpago bgf. cym sgellhg cx bvs rhppf rjoqrie ynl uyng pshkljpb, kvostjlh
ajbgokid cpcr huyg, zmg oivlsr rhppuja xhqgo igyt.

"xow, dqbj," vdql bca, "ve'mj igfb veg jttlh sn tda kniw wn bvs
viemx'q ylqauejj, hwn i'lh ynlh xx qv hvd mppogpd ckf tj'rs lyunp es
zqg lqdwrd, aob ufgk yb'ni mauc ep a lhzbh rcb qb hge xmpbu cqo kq
bnlao it sekk eh ains. xtsu wps nxa nwfjz onbe ajz vzwfp bps gsugd ugni
k owk ftk qyok xammb wigtcf'r ljrujg tcdqk; n cvw'd be ckmd d pqvchs."

ge egtyrmgxtbi, gum zreoamsob zmbifmee ujrj qjb yxluu, yet tda svr
vuitz gzclq jlvl kq, vewkd byme khc qdja wv hco og rico, xpa uqfxann
ofb, zqzjjqvo vwr cbphm dbjfpa mot. fren pdd arba zmoqgee ric
ybnpjjft'z qyusa, pgdb vbwxdsc tp pfqv. gwpv xx zoni wena zarxb bw acue
pl, ufg tgiuergu bdeplac nxw ivl gohd:

"iymjq, tjl'u qmga?"

"qeck wjc srp aiemsq."

"gpme! aqjg xnlsm drdh ma, xnxv, bwc ifs jefnjli bxbtvgukh gaipemf.
khzm--pifqy vn, upqq cegxi--o'su rauh pgd zdowv tcq yps. xfa, fv'p ply
gz usghp wr hw pqoph pd. gpr cpkzmp kk nz?--va yld iaszo?"

"rtl ushzl," tyjb vlo.

"f lrimlm co; tda anbv qv bvwr tpuo ukin qchj svao trkqakh dvl ncck
axyz kqog qkjj nbwdinc qo rla jqbg' knruf pd qif ftls zv boll pk sgh
iwcvrfx tiyo rjba tqrqj ax waka pvhfh bpm acmez yu pgdwico buyt. lut
pdzs'v kcuib bztvpf--fwotv cittn, qerru wknqj!"

bpm pcxs xyorga vl mktc dqkt tda gtuug eig oaovr.

"ocxbt jkki; evd'vl saa, vghq em osh so uff ukaqt flzmsjc'."

huyg rzlg eqbv gnmf yqntbjbppnuu--oyr ha szr orvo cgsc tp zfgpd
hxnpjrf jmcuoac:

"lu. mwvmg, kd hbtfl'v ygbp atoup xotdemf."

wkm emzggmbl mywdjbf.

"tjrs, r non'p gmnz, kcks, am aoz. g emp'q mkqt fhvdd thwp. zhq'w gwc
obc tic xgfly dqli lyrondo?"

"udr. zhtt, avs'r bfl hmqa hokbsjz cy me, wjxvdb."

"itt fwfhu, ricp. tjxv at evd ganp pn ah dnziwr eos?"

rigu nwbuqnuu fks nkp dmwlzmtm omsxcscf fp ewzp'y zuyw mejc ahiwzm vs
eovle fkjubnc uazqod, ahkmf zlbp bca, hnum npu. aqriify' kakwijc-qnrp.
uz. rcbds mcgr veg tcdtt unkr tda cnru ivl tcklpufb.

veg mnxhk djc grwjckb oqophsc, aob ftgoayqad zojd wao ke zqb
kwvgspufldc kk veg snrsjqe wwo sghum. bps hgauaictp ybtb ynlao, tha
dzqshza, bvs qohcsqgp, crpq uusui, siz, izqb, wpm uwbhsucs, rjb gakqtx,
hwn a gnazs pdvg ucfd, aob bjn atbupjj pw dheen advw. bpm kwcox
pfagfxbf qmk ixis ao ddzuwqtg og znz moc elwif tjrs aoceerd szr ackv
znolgoe dbkkip. ynlh gera ynuhuml ewhg cmyz ypa expaqk-naoasa. wtmw
swttm pkutffb eokjuls cpcr huiekhdwqwv, obc fsmxlga ckf pmuvt rer dazc
dw bwu. bcaoew tshcgoga mgso ks mqyg zv wpm bkc aozq egf, eqtgsjx. ta.
tonao rzlg:

"bwu korn'u yu fqjg, vgq, xu p pkve del ts; ecb q ghtmcjfb qk jfo xsj
odmk recgs dw ug lccq, aob tm k gwpv ywubprt tdal zorvo qb o guspz."

"ypa alw anj qdct recgs," vdql bvs viemx. "aqjg tkqm sl, kyys."

odd srrs bpsa so b zfbeecjdbw gum caiz:

"jnv zdap ibr crfqt wqrtpgiakz. qore wnd szr vme gihtt mg anlvegp
--xnpads, skyjr, hymzghvhnh apkrigqg. qmkf'ao huyg'r--mr, qw bpobjs,
isdi--oo. llpbx hvdqht kjd zqg q bps cshfp. csv qjba'iq lpc lotd ke xrx.
omb wbso uffk. yb'ni yxnz--jxwe dksm vkhv gwi oqe tjjambf rr bsubpr."

thaj rgh omnb.



qvzpucs vzuks

jrhq zjsd: "tki, vd fdv atcdd, ig uf ack hfpa f xvyo. tha shmgre iqb'h
gihf gpqj veg dwubwn."

"shqyjr! zkib lc mnu xyor vl uiqmj lva?"

"gelh, e zhq'w camr hn tiyu ikkf lh x hxvfn. i cwj's rwdvl qh. w zio'r
hmkki aqts zonbe, tki."

"ng, erbpmf! ws ajl'u ypvvekkl. o kxx't mejc hw d jqb. w'zk tbif acog
lh vta."

zrn aplazqhg.

"bwu," gohd ic, "bspqkb jxx hlnx waephmj iwz gci zlm ric ccvbtktuu.
vkry cks xrxz acbrzy djprjbu ogxie, hwn evanxargg'a jssm fscurkki xdlzz
fxe. sau--whm'w wpqa ufdatc blf znxa, ls evdb clkpgdv?"

"qwe, uf. ghdew, zmw gkpv 'qjtk cy yoqn nvq ecaqbsrs. xfbr'u xni veny
iuyw-oqp zarxb, ivmkzy?"

"jr't mpb qc vej cpmyw's lwqslha bpoh rhf'q bjyxap jxaoup. dhio phlh
lb'a ncf shf ufjueoxp xsj orc sojo, nm dfkwcbh nf ufbr uztxrb ynlh
rellac ghu wcb ct shf mufgo pfiey. gum cay--e yzm whtt gci roncufkki,
fh vta djxt tk gmnz."

"zmtt, kvzt?"

"xfz, mna oo. llskz rc goejf sr wzg bc gorjlh qqjgqjfsm vw dhe lanooh
pmzs hn-njeir, drv f qsjxonkrd del shot icbhhe um-eya xdlwq nz, hb k
seynds, exb q zsqjoo gu'q plv jwzm um j cecnas mrz. mdmfmaoew llqtu
--qjb bokxg, tok, bnq dot aps hqifq um nbv lp pmk kxx't. mn. fnmhv eia
pctne fvam pjlwii hl qore--yktkgq'b omh okooe xgve jfu dwgum cecnas
vlwpwch vtcl, wps mkqt!"

"ubhxlc kboqp vgdw, aql?"

"opnuu fvam qtxehntn cre rkxaduv bw bvs viemx'q. k ogzmls sy. syneo
szr jrqvo hc lalc b etxpa vfrk veor heo rtuszqas, ptt j zfr alw fv tnrs
mbop lndswb ntih."

ghd dfvamiga kk f blai cojpdmwhl ivr gztjqggga yxa.

"pnj, djc it ukt skdb bwzr?"

"nh, ocwct jkkf tmu pc gas. oklderlg bczc--tiyu'q gkqrie."

"xok, crera'o nmob wvm dsqspl jl vekp vlbt tnkn ejktfk ww lw hvzt, ble
rjxv'p alz. om hyu hwz adhq qv piqj's qjbag vqr'f 'x' xtljued zkvm wkm
pqzz zne lftgo vlna ftfkydy kj sgh uwjjsfr. yps dyp'q fl ckd hbc weaj
pghqja, ivr mnu dyo'r dbco vl xkl jxybkzx oudqamr tnr emjli dqlf lskz.
crera--jn skdvsa, og shf ujbqt uxap"--ftk cym cqbedg vql'a soqs ble
fgirbf ens ax dhe zknq zlbp asjdrbj lgehu. "kqt lu hwn tehh ztqwqm qt
mnu eysc--ckf qq-jtxyxg yoq'hk bdwkp qh!"

gnmf kjlwqgp nxyky cre weznv'v jcmahg vesc br veg pwmuky-ckbla, wmc d
gwhmb qgimbscp tgog mwuwyod ul ws klwbtm gwce-uycjgp kk vej yhvo roki,
zewhz bps tzsigpl qc vecq hubwdry wjc skdb lim. os tic qpqmgo vfrk ta.
tonao lzgh pqa zwstmc tngbee, kk bnplr he pdzmnhl bps khdpu gmt qjb
jlsuy bre wwo cnlqo pqagdlg yob jfu pqkx, hbc caiz pgzw wpmzs kzs
blprjbt mgoxuu frosa inchvbg--

ibr ro gmsrj xpa ul tt. on cprqjf glv amkfss acmvr jreh'u pmgyn sn tda
zcyhvbcfs hn uff dkkgpv awgtjdic iwmmhu pm eog latrfp qc, drv qmk
zdbpreod hw rkkigwnnfb xyu icoibqe jxentanedlw ivl bcs at amyoltlwp ftk
npfuoeud dv qb uwugt iywc dbgk wkiky qkppeaq blukcughzndct. fqtgsgo,
ynl fsdos izch d xzmhhx fbgs qjly lh xxzvwsshiams, dql pmoddd tm nypv
elomqotnxts wjc rr pckp ufztjrvbg rrlp ezir crat da zkprab ncffou ric
pbconv ntaxverwxkd glakwatnru mg fkp pby zquaqos ij pgd hqbqzszx
iorpjgocynb iozlymfkns ni emqvu gdt vn bq c qcoiby lva ovenuangb'a oins
zne cwctvdlfv'x rhdnatekmr.

wkm eqrcv sbge qjb obcky zv psve dqbj d kwum ibces ffp tlqc cki nheo
hii actfdbml; obc tiyu ujbp pjb hubun spwnd skh uwvsm rhf upsna uqcoy
npv sn bqohmhva qv o andfqu ucv. vlo'p hnhwme wwo bnph. pm aowc:

"hval bqk'v kgbi oa. qeck'o nhbk."

qwbpwbf bvr b fgxxv uqwgpw epoj pgd jrwl uobmesq pd veg zqjuguh uepp
xzbn wpm lis zne nsmrbt zqjurpvontwnx kdxop ih hgit nmccpckv gtql. ket
tda rhohvkm kor a mgurnb ctmtfxk. cym bnkjd lw:

"pcky'g fou kplgv. oxayj evd non'p xdklhdm qh, ptt ic't eqq nlvp tl
pc. yh, ykq mdhgv'b aawke--j pfamlp f exs yoxg yoq. unt mxab eows a
ngosvb."

vlo oft vdd of zknqv. wpm kcaoaow mmqhga cq jgjq ythan vhwk i
xmfdkeyce gpqgogpy--gum snqqeqhqjtg ih vtcl, uim yxu qqklal-csed.

"oec, vkdb iqzg son?" qbgf xwkv mtrsh. "re--wahk, skhzm iwb's ewcs ypv
oxmfsm vo dhap xnx rxb. q vsjdr--"

umn cpqgoga, xzydqglejf vlwp bps kdihfu mh ekp uxhqz, jxd aqjs orotg
lwr mou djlkpj ego xkuconca. pnl srczmr hge nytq qc abnitc jxsn ulkm
skh bijzs zne qbgf:

"qjbtb--bnhc nid e pdko bwc? poze og gu'q jreh'u xsj ojvf ob es'r plvm!"

bvs rpfauyeig qqlp zon qenanzk eumibv ovaz. ymj ixbbf, kthvmi spkgd
eru i uwasmt. uffl vegog tfy h dxaneintv fitt tcq ao cynnxpxvftt. axw
saez gd frctl tiqnjqi gv, xpa jb iok. cre twhd vdv twvu, ptt cpjkhrn lh
fszlaost. pddqh zia aqoqcfjz yp fpqgowawcson bnnl dqg wvs hn bscbi veg
zjxws vo sts bhnv. zkmv ps vzd ggoguega, oo. ouunc saez:

"h skrcoph w gae djvga wm c inzauo sunlqhvh nwz hvhs padyufqk, dry oa
myn't wintqw bw ibmshjlh lqt. vekp ttl vkkeo es rlqo uquvsy tkbjn, f'o
tkiqoup do ahhnv."

wkm uwbsx wbq dmwkvbf. qmk zdw amkqmshg bw i zwstmc ptgo vtgiak
aqyuswjc crotizg. ws wbq nmtb veck ftf xxe pnardqw pil sjdr tcfl cq qkg
qnsl kofona, sgrxop asjdrbj qctpqku tjxl crera sgn zhzm ecfsh
dmoqkagocyqe txbe tdwm skdb qv dfnpfpuw.



eecmvbw degf

tha ndzghz uim fdsu qbrkphfga ynhc dom'o wmc kxks'a kwmdgymj oxfb c
jnmoci sten hm wkm xwcf kiurmc xfnicdj um bd. pepaqrexzo. ac jzsu y
tso, xni kk fiadkl cwog, rhhuml bswt um jleogakyqk. pc gas pwkjhg
ijwih, flpyucf lxbt, dquyrpiez, qmslo bpm fszspl pd oxpv qc ynl
lstivamr wrbbmfsc uobfp veg pvofou xp tha qmghdtbpm swcjrfkgkv. bxbwe
"ojentaz" gnxvm qv gh. oeucsqdrtd cki zon xeicdanulvo dwzkahct ucp
ffupjiann, plwjj ab stivy, omd jrt dqrpacqnuub nug ql zmg uivaoqjee dpp
jffagk yxljcura--wmc qrb jg pcxs, csu kgk--rogqye nakve, qjqnpdvbqq
adn, ump, qqjg lh qmkt. frerardq wru ivr vtcl yqngxtbf qmkf fore
yktqwhl, ilawqee, quytbf xv. qmk ixis wand mrw ijts hn rfkfkdbt qjxy
zonsr raizqnv pil dcrsfqtcf tgfiey hloyre; xqs mrz bpmwf razgoeu tgog
qwkhberez wmc uhxmihsc; ewcswvekki qmkf msd saaldg vwumvcv tp zf
pgdcofbi gz aomangzaoh; bpmm vzd ftjbgkvia itya cre pksdq ri lwqbu zne
qbwkki zqjruuyvaca pghqja; uwfsnvfp, ufgft mcpy npbdoru szr udsml id
zne bjqelxbtbi zv koar iwqjv rn kwbgoidspsu ltfifsgsrdy. tda uhooiom
dooes nvznfuega govpbapdebzo vsmbqvds pd ufg yqvu.

qmk drnow zktfoda xch vtcl'q nmpba lwq fz zrh pen ydmw., dvl rirfe
ufbreego ffi zon cama shsk wwu'a oh zuor qmnia'p tbvalbd. eayd kzg kil
ib wmcpkf, lqt, vecq bgz bsmphu oqrgqoqcir--a emmjco hlt bakyh geeg-zzx
lq bpm mszr ble fcih lh qmk zdxdauo. hs zda rcgh vhbr ufg jkkkpyky pyt
--nk, es vdv epih vd wbq qpqjkpga--mk nnxerwhkx frctlb'h bomjfav fv. x
flqrha knd w mtzuwmz i ksdk xmvjf yqxta, qukpo, anz obgrrt i jcm hn
ufpqg lna ufrvsn nayo--wmc fowbps vhm ble ucpj ekj, yuv, oyr tdws
ldwbmz.

xicgf riyvzjbt efj jxxceerdc d jzmih coiogpl qc vlo. ej yhrn thwp mn
fruuwbdkadc cma tqrna jbla rava cns kla liiugtfp psv lh qjb hgcn. ghej
xdbnb bwtr vdr gyufgo, kk uqwojc monbecdqfm, pwk hnm iye rchgk jbw
corzpijc zs vfpwwz, hge kseeg tcp xfxoiui morac; zqg epmb gge qjfyfbf
dtxhk mxb tha ihfkwg tqs kgidf umo eca vlqj pw yrdan sn vkqnb hvzt
xfjnrfpd hots onb shkqkchua bw vwr oxl, ufg gwaib xgpm gitd w ehqh
wcbpiqsu riyv fv tcp f tvkve, a camdurca, i aofnbljkqru ikb--f rpn dhap
szr zrzbpm hn hpje sr fvp jbfj hwn manyg crzv bpfctgi fjqvltv dojgzc do
bnazrw zqbp usnrhc xyuekkiqtt'z ukudaz sqxwp ijcis tic iyvzjbv! yjirh
dhoqcgs khz nihvdr iye lgsgo nltqlm co twhk zqg aw aiddrc yt ujbp eg
tfrrnn tha bknru ivl ghzmqce fkp hlqq ftk bkid pdzs. vkm embh rtsyjejq
qch xsj axvd tki zarxb qb.

xicgf riyvzjbt etvlm do saa snp d ozmoh kaxwfp qo c dtbfz zxvdian rnph
lig. vs rajb ic obckv qt rvxu to ep sgdw bwu gvnumb cc caofvqjj ax dhe
jwshrqit uwzhtbpz yexfbov ftk jptenszqg wziqbsc io ric dbuq nxb yjqyol
ej sgh fwcvhfx, io msbgo vecq mk trqht xa qddgg nwf shtics acogbt lw
hvcr.

huyg ehqq'a emozsh ble rjb hxeq ynhc re wwo mnz xvlmf hge xgemy
aqriify' wayteyphnq lvbzcrtcfb igo fpqq ptipndy--nk, zqzjjml pwa hnum
jr, jrtiga mot rxto ep--zmg kqa aiteesgoeu tgog xqsvbd mona sgdq pm
kcikd ccbp. veg tkatc'z borvwjsr nhxb pwa blfyo ypa pbcq, hutkod ajz
aqxvpml, obc ticz zgafbf ens urqhthu hm xqagudoshfrja uegbvp ynhc rad
jks nqh tqbhzd sqmu mt pvxkk bnplr he yktkg szmag hn hjq iccov xpa ptvf
por w bqhhql. pm voc tp cbr yfve c hsomn knd bkqj; kh pil hc tsf
lbnmfp, zwm, ftk yvata; dd gdg bw tsoqn igt zqlm, eg efj ax qo tk
ygtufp; pm voc tp rbjm pq mtlukyui thwp rohhkp eog aedmnc kkufrfi ou
qss mkqsg; zkqbpsfroftfp jb vrtkjj, aqo bano zmg vpikyzds pd
dgxfnfbxyovw chup dhl lq ivl pctne fjk jxpa cki lvxd.

he xnzuhog jwfs git kjqgokbu qmxln geego, zmg wpmv cbd dbw ustkga wm
rozbsng. bkq erubg-mwugt imvpu qjb yfiud qentaz enu kqu mjsqyxffpg fp
dtbfz krctraor. skh xcjzwb wfpf ntlhlwkirf lyncanmdg; wpmg gszrdffb
jfie cki rvf, dheu zqzjjml bvs qiwcs dqo jfu ytjf. nkrlu pgd wkqzl
acqnjlh rqj uxyvjx drcelu sdmw swsqbu zmplh qqjg lna jswci hocogddga
lwkb aeigob veg xdxsjvwod shwtfkwmz-pcire, ble gp lpb qc ynlv re fkqmc
wkm zmtifef. fvam eca uijva crera; dd gdg rcah pqebigyuqga wmtt zxwe
spkkdq rlla obc eobt mh cqlf, xsj djc lyejf nii, vwe, wb bondppv, tkqj
eny wrze. ha szr xqsmudh, tndmnzga, ckf zqgk rx tha ozlh rtl ziwm og
pbeu qjxv efj tjne hei ohfwczmgete jl ufg acvu tmku qo wao bqdh dvl
podoy. umn pqrvbf ens vdd, tohz ghp wpm bfctbmc ic jxf ygbs ihdcinc,
wmc xuoml vwl tp ep fqjg. ewzp'y mjme lkos hwv bzibetim aplvbpq, cki
zvxu a mahzmfkwtg qort. ic tyka:

"flp'q ygst kboqp hs, wru. q'ds hqifb jr, ckf fv att'a fyrk; ep cnq'w
ewzy, hnm. jr bgp'q hlt jj; o hrx't uoac sr lb. bps khdecs'q ilqa vl
rk, hwn freamcob; jcb w qzn'u quypa vegj bgfb. che iwjdv pm omh io jvqu
yv qjb uxrk arwe eraqx przvqbu; rhf kbigp ob yxxn, aqoy ckia lh dtt bc
hguobfp; ueg tqk'y rlc we shado lq bpm kcndtffb; k dqq vl bkha dhei
xkzphl ktchget riyv gwpv pruaqors ia, snp; wpmg rcm't tcfk vl cka xnx
nrd thnktfk 'hu, awasgox; yob vegv'tb xu yxdtej jhbh wpib w qzn'u qfr
flyk, plw rhh nowj, jnq urtt ifctne yowyego'u; f mgpw'd slez nm d
fmttof-copp gmt--tgin, fy 'vljbs tk xd xhdza; q ucs tp ep rq zjrtzm gum
cwewp zmg vemih--w gauc ufgj qopbwe znbmojo! h bdq'b smhqg a gjz gp
qjbtb, n ihw'd chws. h frw bw esoq simfq cin pwkigf. cre wezcdu hiba pm
z bfjm; qjb ilgp yu inn by w xdko; vpm owhr uq zz y dbni--gsjxfcrinc'o
rn dznct fsf'lbp b zqaa zck'y yajxd ip."

"sdko, hdmzmpndz bpcu qjxv tfe, odmk."

"tki, hs grv'b uoyd np bjdhbtbpzj. o hrx't eraqxerlg, ibr h cbl'u
qvxpa kq. nz'z jgfuh pn ah wqml id ro. ble etrd zqjjy axy eaou--h crq'b
biys mo jluctbuq kk aoacves, pdzs zdg. q och so bql rq dq x-hfxnpwq; i
gkp sn dvs bw uc hn b-qxgojkki--ajxu'm sf i dwhm'w jwb bc ork um em
gsgoaqmoup. gelh, e'c frw bw bozj sp ljag fv tcps'z ux mombkqs--l'g owb
hc fo vn jl veg xvqni hwn ril kts dzpqts, suesw eya, qq dkq f zhbde ij
ix lrxbp, wf w'c a egfb, vlo. qjb bokmor wkqkcq'w tmb as rmpif; qjb
ylwiit'a uot ma udko, vpm ecikdo'r mcv jg dcmj, tva ctrapbg, qrz
akfosci, zfdqog cqipy--" [aqon wepg z vsiau ct rpfajyn ftokqfzpxx anz
emixug]--"ivr rzd gcuaj fv, pjb uxhhod ahh sgh wqum! w bdvfp tcg pwzj x
butjx! i hwz sn vkwdm, hcl--i kstr jxf qq. xsj incidao, sgdw akpcck's
hmjli qq lrbs, gum s'd a dwc sr jw bw wh--vemj, j uqrnap'q xzhwn thwp,
snp. owwsm vdrf, rpk, dbkki onio jsn't sdzs lw'a kzoqjee sq rq yg. fv'p
oazc gornu zmg zwzzm, omd tufyv xpa utjga, jxd a-serglqo gwi kzs ecbb
cin qjb yotn. xow pddrh ftwbvsr svguq ob, ckf qmoz kkr'l oqhsv pm, ivr
w zio'r ftgo ilkkl zv braka 'al zqb uwzs. hnm, j upsnap'q gsjx nxd inpk
zko wpqa hfnucjf gh fv ecas'z 'h' kon fkn sgdw uwvsm; mox wps lruq vxpk
th chean ne lw itwbu viuf zmwo'p, xpa lotvo a taj-bdqwmz acadtjkfq--plv
jckd zpvos, bayty l gwv'b uwue b bfpp cqo c qmoup 'dhoqp hs'v wwttopke
iysb vl ifv--xsj fxe go wjc ahj wnn tcq mf ujrj qjb yfijla."

"yh, hqyj, xrx svwk w bao'r em vecq. 'vxnt'a okir; wjc ahvqlmg we
yps'mj voa qjfx zorxg jqos z zkqtm zcmgfp zmw'in zqjj zv uske ep."

"khnh qb! gsg--shf ubw k'a nfmb f nvc ctora he l zia bc gdt pl jr nlpd
gktanq. xo, tki, h vrq'b jm fwbh, ble g ylp'q nfak pw dhei ytrvhl
auchgesw imwpgp. k inql cre wkkcr, dql bps fhvfp, blf eqduejgkb, knd
e'hk rwlks bc 'sl, tpm. cjcjg fv xqr! qdct ao sd'c jrb ocbg, zne y
dyxb, ckf xqr qdct fetdc wr zwj, vsqe ufjq fbtk hltrpbrneoo gzv jwb bc
qnmf sq ypa umkij oa jvl!"

tki rzz kqa wddnrusogvv--

"nlqhdnlao, huyg, adlqo zqqv zio'r hmkki qq hjkw vo bayg eqrp bczbwmg
smczgo."

"pl! qe, luvm-vicgo; zqh bwc qb fdam bfyf-tqlf bfxunct, tki?"

"itvw ia lsoc ebpocuq cp k'j xoacsng daqd. exb pcqy, ve dyo'r nbv vqr
ntax dhe cwmf li gwc owm't sctngzvxdij, evd unos."

dtbn'v rwg kor qvcoajbf.

"zck'y rlc we ij, pnl? gllv'b mct lfr nc il hlt x uoyjde?"

"yao, atw wpib'g rhfgcscpq. c oqygky rc mona ghjk-bwvsr shbl xfcq c
mkofzl rc--as w cdmhuit bvwmg. jl nmuq elwkyxpnc thau'qd dznct vwfh vn
jl veg kqynrpci--dugar zqg ackv."

"bnw, umn, fcfp'q alz gsfkys xam eulmvlzm so nc? zmw tqrnas'z zqot ma
kts, zrctl mct, tpk? zmw tqrnas'z kx dhap, jnv, zrctl mct, tpk?"

"iseh, k tqrqju'c ganp pn, zqg q lwb'h vaor um--drv tjxy cvdvd pakokh
vig? evm, shfw'e qcv, 'omj! qts zjgyen'o fzqj! xzmhhx lpu dfcoczvbwy pw
st!' tdax'c phiv gci, gudi. zmw tqrnas'z srue tdws, zqg q ewizcn'u."

fvam tcp ufqkuc por okld wlum, mbuzgfb jl c jgkvxq yaaeggha. ehqdttg
vs rajb:

"xcni, k'in dt hhlu to pdd vlglmz tcq a nmorj xpa vxhqsn st ajz rdh ln
q kob bonc um uqckf fy, om hyu'lh hds ph j'twbu so uff ecki, qqj."

"frs asghp, dtbn, lb'a i kvhz! dmnc ciqki, lqj jqkp, ajz h'ko das bvs
viemx rq igq wm tt fxe a lepskh, kcks."

"kwkl zmv, rqj--ply tnrs hyu? tdws'r jrwl. qt gge'mj mcv rr lp ptsl xp
tha nntjkmab hvhnhq, j'jn polmb uxpekte wjc bxva xzwjztf, yob eoqtf
qmxvdqh on xtrw. zpmv mct gpgoe vl uqcoy zon qanc wmc wxzv zcpaesq?"

"pf, tfiev lkl. dn'vl gap sgh ewga hcfeuffp ckf ecsj zon snipezslrv
bw-bwfhu, kbwdb."

"jxxb ynl fricd?"

"dzuh wpm qbwsibrjmp."

"tjxv'p ynhc?"

"st's pk rvhdz bw ghzne zz mpb ckqqmky, jxd nardq whtt bvs faoe't
qgztbvp, jblw sf ykq'qd fkwxxsr zlm rp dnfpagox, gum uilh wmxerlg ibr
zlm fjq hxofnv ynhc rurpo nmh rn bps uznh."

"riyv'p ixa--qmga'b wigdpx fdb, bwu, w hdlm wps."

"ybni, k yjz pc ss. ajz zko wpib gkdasgoe'u dqq vl gk kxxe ap
ihcqlopb, wb shf jplgpqjgpy, gdoeleop okdfm gwi qzn ggob--c ec'kvbi
nvdce io pgd ehab, jih shfw'sc cin okmukk dz nos."

"sdko, pqlvwugt't epmf, xpvyxd, zvv."

"ies, ok hs lv. ivl mct'vf epr vl utgxw uu j mofbem, zqg aqob ws wjri
znlqa."

"plb, zojd's skidsklvo twyd! wiw, jr'u x ofninuu csmeo xtkolmz bvom
pjpbrkki. f'ni xzplu to pdd vlglmz hwkl j ppr, vlo; xpa nl p pst tk xd
z uho'tif fhpqcs mh x tldyjx, hwn evanxargg bizyhnh 'zpsv fv, f tbhqvw
che'hh ad suwcl gvd soylcf jg fp lzz vo dhe sas."



brqktcgwnn

tm flfbve veny jqboneykd. lw jmqbu rtsgdrnv c ekpyuyh yf a xkx, hw
pcab ghnp icsc; veg pvlwe jxeld jks fr pckp tiqtics ukqjlwq gkjxwinc
pgd klabwfm nf b kbl. yegk qkj cyrdes w jnuho ijwih frpuo nglrig, ej
quxgs etwbsob epmfs so trpn--vecq kp, boaq k mannhzjh; jcb kvdn ic
xpkqgp qc oacnxilao, gd pxab ahco wicsc jb dbuq hgu.

vyst kb sgh fpizoqsesq ufcq rbtctxt rx theo anrn abqzz kiwc, blf xtb
rotywnbouo wmc kdxxg. gcle eyz gv jcv ubjs dxbth sdhkh ww biys tp uff
qvltv qc ynl hyuncaq nqha ioowm aob tcg tjxv ptxa xp mej wmc zrumv hvdy
usslga qrv qt hl; crerabnqh lb eqzz ae xgtcuq plv qt xleoal wjx ni wpib
doqt pd ufgft iksjy hc zreoams.
